
Ringo Starr Asbury Park debut at Paramount is canceled, venue is 'closed indefinitely'
Chris Jordan
Asbury Park Press







Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Famer Ringo Starr will not be playing the Paramount Theatre in Asbury Park this May after all.

The former Beatle's city debut, scheduled for May 31, 2022, has been canceled by show promoter A.M. Productions as Madison Marquette, the operators of the venue, could not confirm that the venue would be open by then.

Asbury Park issued a notice of default to Madison Marquette over safety concerns and other issues at the Paramount in August. Madison Marquette told A.M. Productions that the venue is “closed indefinitely.”

“We're sad that the date has been canceled and sad there's no positive news,” said Stanley Andrucyk of A.M. Productions. “I was super excited to have Ringo in Asbury Park. Everybody was.”

Reps from Madison Marquette did not reply to a request for more information. Refunds will be available at the point of purchase. 

Starr and the All-Starr Band are still set to perform at the Count Basie Center for the Arts in Red Bank on June 10, 2022. Tickets are on sale via thebasie.org.

The show is part of a string of Starr concerts on the East Coast now scheduled for the spring of 2022. They include three shows, June 6 to June 8 at the Beacon Theatre in New York City, and June 19 at the Met in Philadelphia. The shows were originally scheduled for the spring of 2020 but were postponed due to COVID-19.

The current All-Starr Band lineup includes Steve Lukather from Toto, Colin Hay (Men At Work), Gregg Rolie (Santana and Journey), Warren Ham, Gregg Bissonette (Toto and Santana) and Hamish Stuart (Average White Band). Edgar Winter is the opener for the shows.

AP concerts:Asbury Park Convention Hall, Paramount Theatre cancel concerts. When will they restart?

Ask the Beatles:Isley Brothers will defeat Earth, Wind and Fire in Verzuz battle, just ask the Beatles   

Starr recently released the EP, “Change the World,” and LP "What's My Name." He also starred in the Peter Jackson Beatles documentary “Get Back.” 

The Paramount concert was going to be the first for a member of the Beatles in Asbury Park. The Beatles themselves performed once in New Jersey: Aug. 30, 1964, at the then-named Convention Hall in Atlantic City. Both Starr and Paul McCartney have performed solo concerts elsewhere in the state.

“If they fix the problem I'll be glad to bring him back (to Asbury Park),” Andrucyk said.

Homecoming:Smithereens officially open new Carteret PAC with a big night of rock, memories and 'eish'

Subscribe to app.com for the latest on the New Jersey music scene.

Chris Jordan, a Jersey Shore native, covers entertainment and features for the USA Today Network New Jersey. Contact him at @chrisfhjordan; cjordan@app.com.  



We Noticed You're Blocking Ads
We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism.
Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing.
Unblock Ads
Go Ad Free
Already a subscriber? Please sign in.