Skip to Article

Set weather
nj’s Logo
Subscribe

Sign in
Burlington
Man who waved knife at Home Depot employee was carrying a loaded shotgun, cops say
Updated: Dec. 06, 2021, 5:02 p.m. | Published: Dec. 06, 2021, 5:02 p.m.
Mark C. Payne
Mark C. Payne in a December 2021 county jail photo.



By Kevin Shea | For NJ.com
A suspected shoplifter brandished a knife at a Home Depot employee in Westampton Sunday evening and was arrested in the parking lot by township police - who said they found the man clad in a tactical bulletproof vest and carrying a bag with a loaded shotgun.

Mark C. Payne, 37, is charged with robbery, firearm possession crimes and several other charges for quantities of methamphetamine, five knives and 29 shotgun shells in the bag he wore, Westampton police said Monday.

Westampton police described an allegedly brief but tense situation with Payne after he ran from the home improvement store following the 5 p.m. incident. After threatening a loss prevention employee with a knife, the store called 911 and the employee flagged down a responding officer and pointed to where the man fled, police said.

Officers encountered Payne in the lot and successfully de-escalated their encounter to take him into custody, the department said.

The department also arrested Payne in January 2021 during a traffic stop in which an officer allegedly spotted a switchblade knife on his vehicle’s center console. That led to a search of the vehicle and the seizing of a handgun, ammunition, quantities of methamphetamine and marijuana, numerous drug pipes and syringes, seven jars of steroid liquids, nine burglar tools, two more knives, 15 counterfeit $100 bills and a ballistic vest, police said at the time.

He faces numerous charges for that case, which is pending in Superior Court of Burlington County, records show.

Payne is a convicted felon who was recently freed from the state prison system after serving a sentence for running a meth lab at a Burlington Township home that caught fire February 2014. One firefighter was injured in the blaze, which caused over $60,000 damage to the home.

Authorities found a machine pistol in that home, as well as items to operate a drug lab, and Payne took a plea deal for the first-degree crime of operating a drug facility. He was sentenced in April 2015 to an 11-year term that required five-and-half years behind bars before attaining parole.

Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com.

Kevin Shea may be reached at kshea@njadvancemedia.com.

Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.

Advance Local logo
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement updated 5/1/2021).

Cookies Settings

© 2021 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.

Ad Choices

