
Skip to content
Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
Code of Ethics
Facebook Page
Twitter Username
YouTube
Atlantic Highlands Herald
Atlantic Highlands Herald
News for Monmouth County

Home Newsbrief
News
Happenings
Courts/Police/Fire
Government
Politics
Helping Community
Education
Business
 Columns
Pastor’s Corner
The Armchair Critic
At the Movies
Out Here in the Fields
Known Locally
History and Happenings
 Letters Obituaries Calendar Contact Us
Contact Us
Advertise Your Business
Submit News
 Invest in Local News Subscribe
Open Search
POSTED INHELPING COMMUNITYNEWSNEWSBRIEF
Pascale Sykes Foundation Receives a “Diversity Champion” Award

by The Pascale Sykes Foundation
December 5, 2021
Pascale Sykes Foundation Executives
Pascale Sykes Foundation Acting President Susan Kyrillos accepts the "Diversity Champion" award from the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce and African American Chamber of Commerce of NJ on November 10, 2021. On hand at the event, amongst fellow nominees, the Pascale Sykes Foundation was honored for its decades-long role toward community improvement through diversity. Pictured here from left to right are: Pascale Sykes Foundation VP of Strategic Engagement Jackie Edwards, Pascale Sykes Foundation Trustee Elaine Bradford, Pascale Sykes Foundation Acting President Susan Kyrillos, Pascale Sykes Foundation Executive Assistant Joni VanNest and Pascale Sykes Foundation VP of Strategic Engagement Richelle Todd-Yamoah.
RED BANK, NJ – The New Jersey Chamber of Commerce and the African American Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey honored the Pascale Sykes Foundation as a “diversity champion” on November 10, 2021.

As a diversity advocate, the Pascale Sykes Foundation has been at the forefront of ensuring a range of opportunities would be afforded to those most in need. For more than 30 years, President Frances P. Sykes and the Foundation have played a key role in uplifting and investing in community organizations and working, low-income families in New Jersey and New York. Since its opening, the Pascale Sykes Foundation and its substantial grants have serviced numerous social service collaborations by investing roughly $60 million in more than 75 NJ- and NY-based community organizations and initiatives. This has contributed directly to the positive development and well-being of children and families throughout our region.

Central to its success, the Pascale Sykes Foundation’s Whole Family Approach is a preventive rather than crisis-driven approach. It is a family-led strategy that provides adults and children with the tools and social support to collectively set life goals, create actionable plans, and achieve those goals. When the whole family works together to support each other’s goals, long-term change, stability and well-being become a reality. Empowering families with the tools to reach their goals and stay out of poverty has far better long-term benefits than intervening after they are in crisis.


“While it is a tremendous honor to accept this award on behalf of the Pascale Sykes Foundation, it is an even greater honor and privilege to be of service to so many different communities,” stated Susan Kyrillos, Acting President of the Pascale Sykes Foundation.

In the spring of 2020, when many small businesses nationwide struggled to remain afloat, the Pascale Sykes Foundation and New Jersey Community Capital (NJCC) expanded the THRIVE initiative to provide emergency funding for small businesses and nonprofits affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER SPONSORED CONTENT

ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS ANIMAL HOSPITAL
The holiday season is approaching quickly, and many families are looking to board their pets while they travel. It’s the perfect time to update vaccinations before holiday travels begin. Call today to schedule an appointment. (732) 291-4400 https://www.atlantichighlandsvet.com 
Pascale Sykes Foundation Equitable Small Business Initiative
On March 10, 2021, The Pascale Sykes Foundation presented a $1,000,000 check to New Jersey Community Capital and the African American Chamber of Commerce to create and benefit the Equitable Small Business Initiative. This $1,000,000 contribution will help create opportunities for Black Business Enterprises (BBEs) in New Jersey seeking access to resources and support to establish, sustain, augment or expand business operations. Pictured here from left to right are: VP of Strategic Engagement Jackie Edwards and President Frances P. Sykes of the Pascale Sykes Foundation; President John E. Harmon of the African American Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey; President Wayne Meyer of New Jersey Community Capital; and Chief Operations Officer Phillip D. Woolfolk of the African American Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey.
The Pascale Sykes Foundation sought to establish and implement long-term solutions for underserved communities after the Association of Black Foundation Executives sent out a call to action in 2020. Furthering its commitment to diversity, on March 10, 2021, Mrs. Sykes presented a $1,000,000 check to New Jersey Community Capital and the African American Chamber of Commerce to create and benefit the Equitable Small Business Initiative. This $1,000,000 contribution creates opportunities for Black Business Enterprises (BBEs) in New Jersey seeking access to resources and support to establish, sustain, augment, or expand business operations, especially while these businesses grapple with the economic downturn.

In prior recognition of its positive impact, the Pascale Sykes Foundation has been honored with numerous accolades and awards. They include being honored by the Nonprofit Development Center of Southern New Jersey (2015), First Baptist CDC (now Central Jersey CDC), Parents Anonymous of NJ/Father Time (2019-2020), Mental Health Association of Monmouth County, The Choice is Yours, Inc., Tri-County Economic Development Summit, Kitchen of Hope, Salem County Board of Chosen Freeholders (2016), PlanSmart New Jersey (2015), WheatonArts, United Way of Gloucester County (2018), Exponent Philanthropy (2020), and NJ LEEP (2018).

For its decades of work, as well as uplifting underserved communities, the Pascale Sykes Foundation receives its distinguished honor of “Diversity Champion.”

AHHerald relies on advertising to support our operations.
When you click an affiliate link we may earn a commission.

Email
TAGGED:African American Chamber of Commerce of New JerseyDiversity ChampionNew Jersey Chamber of CommercePascale Sykes Foundation

THE PASCALE SYKES FOUNDATION
The Pascale Sykes Foundation builds strong families by advocating for and funding innovative, holistic social and economic programs that transform the lives of working, low-income families. They envision... More by The Pascale Sykes Foundation

Search for:
Search …
Search
ah animal hospital
cranston dean ike gutierrez by david hawkins
CRANSTON DEAN BAND
AHH Donate button
RECENT POSTS
Park System Hosts the Creative Arts Center Exhibit
December 6, 2021
Pascale Sykes Foundation Receives a “Diversity Champion” Award
December 5, 2021
Santa is Coming to Town with Help from His Elves at the Atlantic Highlands First Aid and Safety Squad
December 4, 2021
The Girls Café will be Open Christmas Eve
December 4, 2021
Utility Bill Assistance Available through County Partnership with NJ SHARES
December 4, 2021
Upcoming Events
DEC
7
7:00 pm
Impact 100: Hunger in Monmouth County
DEC
9
7:00 pm
Atlantic Highlands Mayor and Council Special Meeting
DEC
10
5:30 pm - 7:30 pm
Santa in the Park – Fair Haven
DEC
11
6:00 pm - 7:00 pm
Sea Bright Tree Lighting
DEC
12
1:00 pm - 4:00 pm
Country Christmas in Colts Neck
View Calendar
AHHERALD NEWSBRIEF
Get fresh local news and events information for Monmouth County delivered to your inbox.
First name or full name
Email
 breaking

© 2021 Atlantic Highlands Herald.
Proudly powered by Newspack by Automattic
Facebook Page
Twitter Username
YouTube
