News
News
Coronavirus
Crime and Public Safety
Business
South Jersey Local News
National News
Pennsylvania News
Sports
Sports
High School Sports
College Sports
Buffalo Bisons
Trenton Thunder
NBA
NFL
NHL
MLB
Things to Do
Things to Do
Weekend
Restaurants Food and Drink
Music and Concerts
TV Listings
Comics
Puzzles
Opinion
Obituaries
Classifieds
Classifieds
Jobs
Tools
Contact Us
Contests
Gas Buddy
Subscribe
Log in
Trentonian
Subscribe
Log in
63°F
LOCAL NEWS
Council moves toward firing Trenton clerk Matthew Conlon
Trenton city clerk Matthew Conlon, with the megaphone, speaking at a candlelight vigil.
Rich Hundley III for The Trentonian Trenton city clerk Matthew Conlon, with the megaphone, speaking at a candlelight vigil.
By ISAAC AVILUCEA | iavilucea@trentonian.com | The Trentonian
PUBLISHED: November 30, 2021 at 9:53 p.m. | UPDATED: December 1, 2021 at 6:44 p.m.
TRENTON — He might be getting a pink slip.

The legislative body that fights about everything and agrees on nothing was unanimous about one thing.

And that was that the city should begin trying to remove city clerk Matthew Conlon over “extraordinarily grave” allegations brought against him by some of his own employees.

Tuesday’s dramatic 7-0 vote comes amid what one legislator called a “mass exodus” of employees in the troubled clerk’s office, including three women who stepped forward last week with claims that the clerk sexually harassed them and created a toxic workplace.

The women alleged that Conlon made lewd and inappropriate comments about their appearance and treated them differently when he learned they were single, according to records obtained by The Trentonian.

They felt like “battered” spouses and referred to Conlon as their “abusive husband.”

Conlon was issued a disciplinary Rice notice letting him know his employment was up for discussion, which he opted to have publicly rather than behind closed doors.

“I think we should send Mr. Conlon his walking papers,” at-large councilman Jerell Blakeley said during the meeting.

He called the clerk a “negative force” and suggested he played favorites since he was hired in August 2020.

Blakeley cited Conlon’s “bizarre behavior,” which includes repeated outbursts and threats to sue those who challenged his authority, as reasons for the city to engage an outside law firm to investigate the latest allegations against the clerk.

This marks the third such investigation into Conlon, who also faced outside probes into claims he made on his resume and a separate investigation into hostile workplace claims.

An outside firm recommended Conlon be disciplined for harassing Blakeley, who he once threatened to sue.

Council members Joe Harrison and Robin Vaughn also spoke against the clerk’s antics, which predate his arrival in Trenton.

Vaughn claimed Conlon failed to carry out his duties as clerk and records custodian. Minutes aren’t up to date, and the city was on the hook for multiple public records lawsuits, she said.

“I don’t believe he has upheld his duties. Not to say that he couldn’t possibly correct them,” she said.

The Trentonian obtained records and spoke to Conlon’s co-workers in previous pit stops who laid out a pattern of bullying and threatened litigation, including one that netted Conlon a settlement.

He was previously charged with felony exploitation in Florida, but the case was dropped after his disabled aunt died while the case was pending.

Conlon, acting as aggrieved victim, filed a lawsuit against Mayor Reed Gusicora, council members and The Trentonian alleging a wide-ranging conspiracy to silence him for going to the feds about alleged wire-tapping of meetings and corruption at City Hall.

Conlon asked law enforcement agencies, including the FBI and New Jersey Attorney General’s Office, to investigate his claims.

None of those agencies brought charges against anyone who Conlon alleged “committed multiple felonies” against him.

Vaughn pushed for a performance review of Conlon, which council balked at doing months ago, especially since he hadn’t met terms of his offer requiring that he relocate to the city.

Conlon, who was previously Riced, was granted a waiver to give him more time to move to Trenton due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The West Ward leader was concerned about Conlon’s belief that he works solely for council president Kathy McBride, who, up until Tuesday, was one of his biggest supporters.

Her backing appears to be waning, as even she favored commencing the removal proceedings.

Legislators said Conlon will have his due process and they may vote not to remove him once the law firm investigates and rings him up on charges.

Conlon, who was still overseeing the meeting, did not respond to a phone call seeking comment.

Author
Isaac Avilucea | Reporter
Sign up for email newsletters

SUBSCRIBE
Follow Us
Most PopularMOST POPULAR
In typical fashion, Gusciora wins and fights Vaughn (L.A. PARKER COLUMN)
In typical fashion, Gusciora wins and fights Vaughn (L.A. PARKER COLUMN)
Accused killer of Ewing man nabbed at Newark airport
Accused killer of Ewing man nabbed at Newark airport
Trenton Police upper-brass union sues McBride for stifling public debate on radio system
Trenton Police upper-brass union sues McBride for stifling public debate on radio system
Lawrence field hockey’s record-breaker Talia Schenck in our CVC Player of the Year
Lawrence field hockey's record-breaker Talia Schenck in our CVC Player of the Year
Conlon claims in union complaint that accuser threatened to murder him, bury body
Conlon claims in union complaint that accuser threatened to murder him, bury body
Yes, it’s still early but Rangers are very much for real
Yes, it's still early but Rangers are very much for real
Meet our girls soccer CVC All-Stars
Meet our girls soccer CVC All-Stars
Trenton police director Steve Wilson confirmed, but not without fight
Trenton police director Steve Wilson confirmed, but not without fight
Dope found at Trenton Animal Shelter as activist doubts ‘no-kill’ status
Dope found at Trenton Animal Shelter as activist doubts 'no-kill' status
Notre Dame’s Aiden Hoenisch highlights our boys soccer CVC All-Stars
Notre Dame's Aiden Hoenisch highlights our boys soccer CVC All-Stars
TRENDING NATIONALLY
Jussie Smollett’s Legal Team Begins Defense At Actor’s Trial For Allegedly Staging And Reporting A Phony Hate Crime
Joel Osteen’s Megachurch Confirms Stash Of Money Found In Bathroom Wall
Prosecutor Announces Charges Against Parents Of Oxford Shooting Suspect
He’s Been Building A Castle In The Colorado Mountains For Over 50 Years. What Happens Next?
After Stunning Testimony, Where Does Elizabeth Holmes Stand And What Comes Next?
MORE IN LOCAL NEWS
Driver of hit-and-run pedestrian crash in Hamilton turns himself in
Driver of hit-and-run pedestrian crash in Hamilton turns himself in
Accused killer of Ewing man nabbed at Newark airport
Accused killer of Ewing man nabbed at Newark airport
Trenton Police upper-brass union sues McBride for stifling public debate on radio system
Trenton Police upper-brass union sues McBride for stifling public debate on radio system
A new COVID variant is causing some concern for scientists across the world.
Area doctors share what you need to know about the omicron variant
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
About Us
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertising Sections
Classifieds
Jobs
How to Advertise
MediaNews Group Advertising
Place A Classified Ad
Advertising Inquiry
How To Find Us On Other Platforms
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
iOS App
Android App
Customer Service
Subscriber Services
Subscribe
Submit News
Announcement Forms
Partners
The Times Herald
Daily Local News
The Mercury
Delaware County Daily Times
Patriot Item
The Reporter
Copyright 2021 MediaNews Group, Inc.
Terms of Use
Privacy
Accessibility
Cookie Policy
Arbitration
MediaNews Group
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Close 