Skip to main content
Enable accessibility for
visually impaired
Open the accessibility
menu
Open the Accessible
Navigation Menu
NJBIZ
LOGIN

Print
Four Atlantic City casinos could close without tax break, Sweeney warns
By: Daniel J. Munoz
December 6, 2021 4:12 pm

A Senate panel approved a major tax break proposal for New Jersey’s nine casinos that would lower payments to Atlantic City, with lawmakers saying the move is necessary to prevent further casino closures.

Senate President Stephen Sweeney, D-3rd District, warned that four casinos — which he did not identify — could shut down without the reductions.

“I don’t want to be in a situation of ‘I told you that place was going to close’ and it closed,” he said during the Dec. 6 Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee hearing.

Under Senate Bill 4007, the state would cut the amount of payments in lieu of property taxes that the casinos pay to the resort town in 2022 to $110 million, and remove online gambling and sports betting from the tax calculations. It now goes to the full state Senate for a vote.

The bill passed with the support of the committee’s nine Democrats, with a single no-vote from one of the Republicans – the rest of the committee’s GOP members abstained.

Sen. Troy Singleton, D-7th District, said he was unhappy that no one from the casino industry was at the hearing to take questions or hear concerns on the proposal, “considering what we’re being asked to undertake today.”

But he ultimately voted for the bill, citing fears of the economic damage that casino closures could cause in Atlantic City. The shutdowns during the COVID-19 pandemic made the city’s unemployment rate among the highest in the nation.

The PILOT bill was introduced in June and has advanced quickly since the start of lame duck session, which continues until the new state Legislature is sworn in on Jan. 11.

Sweeney said during the hearing that there were mistakes made in the original PILOT bill, which was passed after the casinos successfully argued that their property values – and taxes – should be lowered because of decreased patronage caused by the Great Recession. The result was hole blown in Atlantic City’s budget, prompting the 2016 state takeover.

According to the state Office of Legislative Services, the casino PILOT payments under the bill would be slashed by $55 million in 2022, “and probably between $30 million and $65 million in subsequent years through 2026.


Former Atlantic City Mayor Don Guardian. – NJBIZ STAFF

To partly offset the declines in PILOT revenue, the casinos will need to pay $5 million each year between 2024 and 2026, but the report maintained that it would be just a drop in the bucket.

“It’ll force Atlantic County taxpayers to pay more so that the casino industry gets a tax break,” Don Guardian – Atlantic City’s mayor during the state takeover – told lawmakers.

But Sweeney contended at the hearing that “if we could tax less, maybe we can have more jobs.”

Under the original PILOT agreement which is still in effect, the Atlantic City casinos are on the hook for a combined $165 million this year.

That would mean a $55 million hole in the local budget this year alone “without any contingency plan,” Guardian said.

“For months, casinos have posted record-breaking revenue numbers, far beyond anything imagined five years ago,” he added. “Casinos would like to change the [PILOT] formula to allow them to keep more of their profits.”

Caesars Entertainment Regional Vice President for Government Relations Joe Tyrell told lawmakers on Nov. 15 that the PILOT system “has actually saved Atlantic City.”

“Without the PILOT, you wouldn’t have had Hard Rock open. You wouldn’t have Revel – now Ocean – open,” Tyrell continued.

Other local officials like Atlantic County Executive Dennis Levinson, warned in May that “the non-casino businesses and taxpayers of Atlantic County… will once again bear the burden of this flawed legislation.”

Under the legislation, the lion’s share of the investment alternative taxes the casinos pay to Atlantic City would continue. That would add in another $50 million for the city, according to the Casino Association of New Jersey, a trade group for the nine gaming resorts.  They did not comment for this story.

PILOT payments for Caesars and Harrah’s would actually drop through 2025 under the new proposal, according to documents obtained by the Associated Press and not in the state legislation.

Payments would increase between now and 2025 for Hard Rock, Tropicana, Bally’s, Golden Nugget, Ocean Casino Hotel and Resorts.

1 of 2
1 article remaining
Advance your business edge with news from NJBiz. Register now for more article access.

Register now
×
a man with curly hair
Daniel J. Munoz
 follow DanielMunoz100
Daniel Munoz covers politics and state government for NJBIZ. You can contact him at dmunoz@njbiz.com.
NJBIZ Business Events
NJBIZ Business of the Year 2021
Tuesday, December 14, 2021
2021 Women in Business Symposium: NJBIZ Panel Discussion
Tuesday, December 14, 2021
NJBIZ Winners Circle - Where Are They Now?
Wednesday, December 15, 2021
NJBIZ Winners Circle - Where Are They Now?
NJBIZ Best Places to Work 2022
Thursday, September 29, 2022
View All
Latest News
Most Read
NJ logs 1st omicron case amid holiday COVID surge
NJ logs 1st omicron case amid holiday COVID surge
Introducing embecta, BD’s Diabetes Care spinoff, and its leaders
Introducing embecta, BD's Diabetes Care spinoff, and its leaders
Partner Content
How the Misclassification of Workers Impacts NJ’s Economy, on Think Tank
How the Misclassification of Workers Impacts NJ's Economy, on Think Tank
NJPAC launches Colton Institute for Research and Training in the Arts
NJPAC launches Colton Institute for Research and Training in the Arts
More Latest Headlines 

a black background with red text
Microsoft Azure Hands On Immersion Workshop. Limited Seating - Click Here to Reserve Now!






Subscriber Content 

December 6, 2021

Dec. 6, 2021 Edition of NJBIZ
Lengthy shortages
Moving targets
Gateway keepers
Heavy lifting
More from This Week's Issue 

NJBIZ.Com
Latest Headlines
NJBIZ In Print
Subscribe To Print
Digital Editions
Events
Executive Moves
Advertising With NJBIZ
Media Kit
Advertise Online
Event Sponsorships
Production Information
Customer Service
Contact NJBIZ
Help & FAQ
About NJBIZ
NJBIZ Staff
Directions
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy
Accessibility Statement
Resources
Archive Search
Business Lists
Services
Employee Engagement Surveys
Subscribe to NJBIZ 
Follow Us
© 2021 BridgeTower Media. All information on this site is copyrighted by BridgeTower Media.
All images are the sole property of BridgeTower Media and no rights are granted for any use without the express written consent of BridgeTower Media.
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
Cookie settings
ACCEPT

Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities...
Necessary
Always Enabled
Non-Necessary
