Skip to main content
Enable accessibility for
visually impaired
Open the accessibility
menu
Open the Accessible
Navigation Menu
NJBIZ
LOGIN

Print
Study finds family leave system beset by application snags, confusion, delays
By: Daniel J. Munoz
December 6, 2021 2:31 pm

A recent Rutgers University report cited myriad problems with New Jersey’s paid family leave system, finding little awareness among low-wage workers that the benefits exist, application confusion and technical snags, and weeks of delays for checks to arrive.

Although New Jersey is a “national leader in policies that support working families,” the state’s paid family leave insurance program leaves much to be desired, said Debra Lancaster, executive director of the Rutgers Center for Women and Work, and one of the lead authors of the study.

“When workers don’t know the program exists, or they have trouble applying, or the payments take too long to arrive, then clearly we have work to do,” she continued in a statement accompanying the report.

State labor officials and the governor’s office did not return emails seeking comment on the findings.

The state’s paid family leave program was enacted in 2009 and expanded in 2019 in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Like the state’s beleaguered unemployment system, the family leave system is dependent on antiquated technology. New Jersey’s jobless benefits program depends on the decades-old COBOL computer programming, while the family leave and temporary disability programs rely on a claims management system that runs on a 1988 mainframe. The result is delays of weeks or months for claimants to get their payments.


Debra Lancaster, executive director of the Rutgers Center for Women and Work. –

Only 53% of New Jerseyans know that family leave exists, which the study attributes to a failure on the part of the Department of Labor to meet its “legal obligation” to spend $1.2 million a year on education and outreach. Those earning less than $100,000 a year are less aware than those making over $100,000, 41% and 65% respectively.

Paper applications are time-consuming, while online applications include confusing questions that tripped the system and led to further delays. Of particular frustration for many applicants were questions on the last day worked, as it was “not clear what they mean by the last day worked, last day paid by the company,” the study found.

“[T]hat portion was confusing because it could mean so many different things for different people,” it continues.

The state labor department should set up a help-line for applicants, who for now have to rely on assistance from informal Facebook groups.

Human resources departments also are “ill-equipped to guide their employees through the process,” and suggested that the NJDOL keep businesses in the loop on any changes to the process.

“Employees mentioned that if their HR department had an organized way to talk about leave, they found it much easier to apply for and receive the benefits,” researchers found. In several instances, claimants had to get the necessary information outside of their employer.

2 of 2
0 article remaining
Advance your business edge with news from NJBIZ. Register now for more article access.

Register now
×

Daniel J. Munoz
 follow DanielMunoz100
Daniel Munoz covers politics and state government for NJBIZ. You can contact him at dmunoz@njbiz.com.
NJBIZ Business Events
NJBIZ Business of the Year 2021
Tuesday, December 14, 2021
2021 Women in Business Symposium: NJBIZ Panel Discussion
Tuesday, December 14, 2021
NJBIZ Winners Circle - Where Are They Now?
Wednesday, December 15, 2021
NJBIZ Winners Circle - Where Are They Now?
NJBIZ Best Places to Work 2022
Thursday, September 29, 2022
View All
Latest News
Most Read
NJ logs 1st omicron case amid holiday COVID surge
NJ logs 1st omicron case amid holiday COVID surge
Introducing embecta, BD’s Diabetes Care spinoff, and its leaders
Introducing embecta, BD's Diabetes Care spinoff, and its leaders
Partner Content
Stop Hiding and Ignoring the Costs of NJ’s Energy Master Plan
NJPAC launches Colton Institute for Research and Training in the Arts
NJPAC launches Colton Institute for Research and Training in the Arts
More Latest Headlines 


Microsoft Azure Hands On Immersion Workshop. Limited Seating - Click Here to Reserve Now!






Subscriber Content 

December 6, 2021

Dec. 6, 2021 Edition of NJBIZ
Lengthy shortages
Moving targets
Gateway keepers
Heavy lifting
More from This Week's Issue 

NJBIZ.Com
Latest Headlines
NJBIZ In Print
Subscribe To Print
Digital Editions
Events
Executive Moves
Advertising With NJBIZ
Media Kit
Advertise Online
Event Sponsorships
Production Information
Customer Service
Contact NJBIZ
Help & FAQ
About NJBIZ
NJBIZ Staff
Directions
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy
Accessibility Statement
Resources
Archive Search
Business Lists
Services
Employee Engagement Surveys
Subscribe to NJBIZ 
Follow Us
© 2021 BridgeTower Media. All information on this site is copyrighted by BridgeTower Media.
All images are the sole property of BridgeTower Media and no rights are granted for any use without the express written consent of BridgeTower Media.
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
Cookie settings
ACCEPT

Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities...
Necessary
Always Enabled
Non-Necessary
