The Community Loses A Man Who Gave His Best!


By Times Staff Writer
Columbus, Georgia – A Man Who Gave His Best The handsome Sherman Peebles was only 49 years old when he died. His life was so filled with volunteer activities and giving back to the communities, we could easily say he “lived several lifetimes.” He was so admired, appreciated and loved that his Celebration of Life ceremony was held at the Columbus Civic Center Ice Rink on Friday, October 1, 2021.
Although the Corona Virus was still active, the Celebration of Life Ceremony was held in compliance with the CDC guidelines.
What kind of person was Sherman? His devoted and lovely wife ShiVanda described him as “someone special.” She went on to say: “He always had a spirit of giving; he was always giving back and in a loving way.” She continued, “If someone needed help, a word of encouragement or prayer, he was always there. He worked a lot but he was there if a youth needed support at a given event.” In addition to being a husband of 20 years, Sherman was a father, son, brother, nephew, cousin, grandson and a friend to many.  Mrs. Peebles added they received cards, flowers, food, donations, prayers and visits when people learned of Mr. Peebles’ death. Several judges sent condolences to the family.  His wife lovingly summed up what Sherman Peebles, her husband, was like when she concluded: “He would absolutely do for others.”
In the program Order of Service in Mr. Peebles’ Celebration of Life Ceremony, Mr. Gerald Riley was introduced as his best friend.  Mr. Riley said about Sherman, “He couldn’t have been more of a brother than my biological brothers. We knew each other for 23 years. We met at O.J.’s Barber Shop and have been friends for the last 23 years.” Mr. Riley went on to say: “we started at O.J.’s Barber Shop, went to Riley’s Barber Shop and worked together at Overflo to Overflo at Midtown until this year.” In remembrance of Mr. Sherman Peebles, Overflo Beauty and Barber Shop had a display on their business window with a bevy of pictures giving those who viewed the photographs an idea of what Sherman Peebles was like. Inside their impressive shop was an enlarged portrait of Mr. Sherman Peebles.
Another important person in Mr. Peebles’ life was Mrs. Catosha Riley, the wife of Mr. Gerald Riley. She said: “Sherman had more sisters than anyone in Columbus because he had no biological sisters.” She knew his dedication because when Overflo Barber Shop did free haircuts during back-to-school activities, Sherman was one of the volunteer barbers.
Muscogee County Deputy Sheriff Sherman Peebles became the Sergeant over Court Services; and he served in the Department for over 20 years. He was a very familiar face in law enforcement as well as outside of law enforcement. He was seen all over the area and some youth knew him as Uncle Sherman.  He was a trained barber at Overflo Beauty and Barber Shop, working with his best friend, Mr. Gerald Riley. He and his beautiful wife were seen at the Summerfest, sponsored by The Columbus Times Newspaper, where they supplied the popcorn machine, the cotton candy machine and the jumpy house; the annual event was given at the Frank Chester Recreation Center. Sherman and his wife, ShiVanda, were wonderful to work with and we will always cherish knowing Sherman.
The formal Celebration of Life in honor of Mr. Sherman Peebles took place at the Columbus Civic Center Ice Rink. Officiating was Rev. J. H. Flakes III, Pastor, Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church, and Presiding was Rev. Michael Sherman, Jr., Chaplain, Muscogee County Sheriff Department. Prefatory Remarks were made by Rev. Michael Sherman, Sr. The Invocation was done by Rev. Donavon Coley. Scriptures – Old Testament was said by Rev. Mark Lawrence and the New Testament by Pastor Delta Outley. A Song was delivered by Ms. Tacara Hemmingway. Reflections came from: (1) Co-workers—Mr. Bayse Bourne III, Mr. Michallee Williams, and Mr. Clinton Powell; Father’s Pastor-Rev. Ernest Sneed; Brothers-Mr. Darrell Peebles, Mr. Thomas Streeter, Sr.; and Best Friend-Mr. Gerald Riley. Muscogee County Sheriff Greg Countryman represented the Muscogee County Sheriff Department. Next was the Presentation of Colors and Final Call.

The Continuing of the Order of Service was at Evergreen Memorial Park Cemetery, 4500 St. Mary’s Road, Columbus, Georgia. Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church (FSMBC) took part. Ms. Jackie McCall Clerk did the Reading of FSMBC Resolution. Presentations by FSMBC Deacons and Deacons’ Wives was next—Chair of Deacons-Deacon Dorsey Stancil and Chair of Deacons’ Wives-Ms. Laura Dickerson. There were four other parts to the service—Eulogy/Words of Comfort, Committal, Closing Prayer and Benediction (all handled by Rev. J.H. Flakes III). The Pallbearers were Mr. Sherman’s fellow Sheriff Deputies and Nephews. The Honorary Pallbearers were his Brothers. The Floral Attendants were Family Members and Friends.

The Obituary –

Mr. Sherman Peebles was born February 29, 1972 to Mr. Willie J. Peebles, Sr. and Ms. Manilla Streeter Peebles in Queens, New York. Mr. Peebles died on Tuesday, September 21, 2021 at Piedmont Columbus Regional Hospital, Columbus, GA. He was 49 years old.
He graduated in 1990 from Hardaway High School, Columbus, GA and furthered his education at Chattahoochee Valley Community College, Phenix City, AL; Southeastern Beauty School, Columbus, GA; and the GPSTC/Police Academy.
Sherman was Sergeant over Court Services, Muscogee County Sheriff Department; and employed for 20 years. He mentored and cut hair at several area group homes. He was a barber over 20 years with Overflo Beauty and Barber Shop with his best friend, Mr. Gerald Riley. He and his wife ShiVanda operated S&S Inflatables/Vending and Event Rentals.
He was a member of Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church and was a deacon, active with Safety and Security, Christian education, PICCM, and the Laymen Ministry. He married his high school sweetheart, Mrs. ShiVanda Watson Peebles on May 12, 2001; they were married for 20 years. He helped at-risk youth and was a member of the Columbus/Phenix City Bi-City Corvette Club and Barbers’ United. He loved to travel and help others. 
Mr. Peebles was preceded in death by his brother, Mr. Willie J. Peebles, Jr.
Those surviving him are his wife, ShiVanda Peebles; one son, Isaiah Willis; his father, Mr. Willie J. Peebles, Sr.; his mother, Ms. Manilla Peebles; three brothers, Thomas W. (Valerie)  Streeter, Sr., Antonio (Jacqueline) Peebles and Darrell Peebles; eleven aunts and uncles; special cousin, Cynthia (Derrick) McGhee; he gained four sisters, Pamela Watson, Tiffany Lane and Keisha Grayson and Carla (Marcus) Lewis; grandmother, Evelyn Grayson Williams, father and mother-in-law, Shelly and Betty Watson; Godparents, Richard (Barbara) Mack; a host of nieces and nephews, Godchildren; best friends, Gerald Riley, Larry Grate and Anthony Riggins. He also leaves other cherished relatives, church members and dear friends.