Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Bismarck Tribune
TOP STORY
Minot man convicted of murder in the slaying of his father
Associated Press Dec 6, 2021 Updated 3 hrs ago  0
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
MINOT — A Minot man has been convicted of murder in the slaying of his father.

Christopher Vickerman, 31, had pleaded not guilty in the May 2019 death of 55-year-old Mark Vickerman at his Minot home. A jury returned a guilty verdict on Monday, after a weeklong trial.

The Minot Daily News reports that testimony at trial showed the father and son had a strained relationship and had argued over business, money, and custody of Christopher Vickerman’s children. Mark Vickerman had told friends that his son is mentally ill and not medicated. Mark Vickerman told several people he was afraid his son would try to kill him.

Authorities said the son called police from his father’s home to say he found him dead. An autopsy showed the victim was shot four times in the chest.

The son told investigators he had been working all day except when he left for lunch and had stopped at his father’s house to sell him a gun.

People are also reading…
MDU Resources Teen of the Week: Century senior advocates for inclusiveness
Man arrested in Bismarck cop video incident faces new charges in Morton County
Longtime homeowner unable to find her original deed
Ice formation expected on Missouri River; Bismarck-Mandan gets first significant snowfall
Christopher Vickerman faces up to life in prison without parole. A sentencing date has not been set.

Vickerman mug
Christopher Vickerman

Locations
North America United States North Dakota Minot
Tags
Crime Violent Crime Homicide Court Decisions Trials General News Law And Order Legal Proceedings
Sign up for our Crime & Courts newsletter
Get the latest in local public safety news with this weekly email.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Most Popular
Warrant issued for Mandan man suspected of enticing minors into gang activity
Warrant issued for Mandan man suspected of enticing minors into gang activity
Authorities have issued an arrest warrant for a Mandan man suspected of paying a teenage boy $100 to break into a home and steal money owed in…

Parshall woman enters plea agreement in infant's death
A Parshall woman accused of allowing an infant in her care to starve to death has entered into a plea agreement.

2 charged in Morton County theft, vulnerable adult case
2 charged in Morton County theft, vulnerable adult case
An arrest warrant has been issued for a St. Anthony woman who police allege transferred more than $300,000 from a joint account to her own acc…

Suspect in Mandan luring case pleads guilty
Suspect in Mandan luring case pleads guilty
A man accused of traveling from Arizona to Mandan to meet with someone he thought was a teenage girl has pleaded guilty to two charges.

Federal grand jury indicts 5 in alleged reservation drug ring
Federal grand jury indicts 5 in alleged reservation drug ring
A federal grand jury has indicted five people in an alleged drug trafficking operation that authorities say has brought more than 350 pounds o…

No one hurt in shooting in Keelboat Park area
No one hurt in shooting in Keelboat Park area
No one was hurt in a shooting in the Keelboat Park area, Bismarck police say.

Trial set for Mandan man charged with driving drunk with children
Trial set for Mandan man charged with driving drunk with children
A trial date has been set for a Mandan man facing four felony charges for allegedly driving drunk with two children in the car.

Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Bismarck Tribune
   
Sites & Partners
Best of the Best
Dakota Classifieds
Mandan News
Jeans Day
Online Features
Services
Circulation/Subscriptions
e-Edition
Work here
Advertise
Events Calendar
Contact Us
Become a Carrier
© Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
