
With harvest complete, Smiths get busy working calves
Ryan Crossingham Dec 1, 2021 Updated Dec 4, 2021 
Midway Polled Herefords
The Smiths finished up working their registered Hereford calves in mid-November.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Ryan Crossingham
SHEYENNE, N.D. – With corn harvest all wrapped up, Bill Smith decided to take some time and head out west to the Badlands for some fall hunting with a college buddy from their days at North Dakota State University.

“We’re heading home now. We’ve been hunting for four days,” Bill said on the morning of Saturday, Nov. 20. “We got one big ‘muley.’ It was a lot of fun.”

While the quality on their corn ended up being pretty good, the yields, according to Bill, were “exceptionally poor.”

“Some fields had spots where zero corn came in,” he said. “We averaged around 20-30 bushels per acre, but we chopped a lot of the acres where there were no cobs, so it’s hard to tell.”

Before he headed out for his hunting trip, the Smiths finished up working their registered Hereford calves on Monday, Nov. 15 – weighing them, vaccinating them, and grading the bulls.

The next order of business following the hunting trip was to gather up some hay and get ahold of some byproducts for feed.

“I’ve probably got to get a semi load of pea chips and probably a semi load of flax screenings,” he said.

Bill thinks they’ll be okay this winter in terms of feed supply.

“We’ll probably open up the silage and start feeding to get the calves used to it a little bit before we wean the calves off during the first part of December,” he explained. “Our snow has left now, so that’s great. We’ve got a little more grazing we can do.”

They received a couple shots of snow in mid-November at Midway Polled Herefords. It started off as rain on Wednesday, Nov. 17, before turning to snow that night and into the next day. High winds were also blowing at 40-50 miles per hour.

“We have a lot of protection for the cattle,” Bill said. “Even when they’re out fall grazing, there’s trees they can get into. Others can come up to the yard. We have a lot of windbreaks, both natural and man-made ones.”

Bill says they’re going to start doing some more evaluations of their sale bulls shortly, including some semen tests.

“We might cull out one or two that aren’t quite up to par,” he said. “Then we’ll get started on pictures. We try to get the catalog done by the end of December so that it’s out the first week of January.”

Midway Polled Herefords sells private treaty, so they start mailing out catalogs at the start of January.

They’ve always done private treaty sales on the ranch because of the flexibility it offers them and their customers.

“We used to put some bulls in some select sales, but we like working with breeders one-on-one,” Bill said. “They can come on their time and look at all the bulls. There’s no big pressure to hurry up and bid or anything. We can also tailor a bull to fit what each individual rancher needs – heifer bulls, growth bulls, a maternal bull or a combination of all the above.

“It keeps us busy throughout the year, but my son-in-law (Jake) helps if we happen to be away. He can sell bulls – everyone can sell bulls,” he added.

The Thanksgiving plans for the Smiths involved staying home for the holiday, mainly because Bill’s youngest daughter, Whitney, had a baby due on Thanksgiving Day.

