Skip to main content

site-logo
TOP STORY
Two Velva FFA members place second overall in Agriscience
Sue Roesler Dec 3, 2021 
National FFA convention
At the National FFA Convention, two Velva FFA members, Rose Schiele and Faith Howe, placed second overall in the Agriscience Fair Project.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Sue Roesler
At the National FFA Convention, two Velva FFA members, Rose Schiele and Faith Howe, placed second overall in the Agriscience Fair Project.

Christine Fannik, Velva ag education instructor and the FFA advisor, said Howe and Schiele both live on farms near Velva and are freshmen in high school.

The two were recognized for having one of the top three projects in the Social Science category in the nation.

“They were very excited to find out that they made the top three in the nation, but it was scary for both of them to hear that they would be accepting their award on the national stage in front of thousands of people,” Fannik said. “But in the moment, representing North Dakota on stage was a great honor. It happened so fast that it was kind of a blur.” 

Fannik said that the two FFA members delivered an “unbelievable accomplishment as projects can be submitted from every state.”

Last school year, as eighth graders, Howe and Schiele conducted an Agriscience Fair experiment in the Social Science category.

“The purpose of their experiment was to see if elementary students would choose a healthy or an unhealthy snack option when given the choice between fruit and a cookie, and if this choice would change based on if they were educated on the benefits of healthy eating or not,” she said.

During their ag class, the two FFA members went to first, third, and fifth grade classrooms to conduct their experiment.

“They actually found out that many of the students in each grade level chose the healthy snack option over the unhealthy snack option, regardless if they were educated about health benefits or not,” Fannik said.

Their Agriscience project won its category and its division at the State FFA Convention last June.

The two chose the project because they were interested in topics involving kids and food.

“They prepared for their project by creating a slideshow that showcased the benefits of healthy eating and the disadvantages of making unhealthy eating choices,” she said.

Howe and Schiele started writing their Agriscience project report and creating their display board. They practiced their presentation on weekends, before school, and after school to prepare for the contest at State FFA Convention.

“We thought that the most interesting part of the National Convention was seeing all the people involved in the FFA organization. When we attended the State FFA Convention, we thought there were a lot of people, but then going to National FFA Convention and seeing thousands of blue jackets from different states was a real eye-opening experience,” Fannik concluded.

Tags
Velva Schiele Ffa North Dakota National Ffa Convention, Velva Ffa Agriscience Fair Project Christine Fannik, Velva Ag Education Instructor And The Ffa Advisor Agriculture
Farm & Ranch Guide Weekly Update
Get the latest agriculture news delivered to your inbox from Farm & Ranch Guide.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Sue Roesler
Sue Roesler
Reporter

Author email
Most Popular
 +2Wet corn mill a potential new market for corn growers
STATE & REGIONAL
Wet corn mill a potential new market for corn growers
Updated Dec 4, 2021
GRAND FORKS, N.D. – Northeastern North Dakota corn growers could have a new market for their crop with the announcement that a wet corn mill w…

 +2Rugby team takes home national championship at National FFA Convention
STATE & REGIONAL
Rugby team takes home national championship at National FFA Convention
Updated Dec 4, 2021
It was a big day for three Rugby FFA members who were escorted into town after being crowned 2021 National Champions in Ag Technology and Mech…

 +2Family Roots Farm raises produce, meats in southeastern ND
STATE & REGIONAL
Family Roots Farm raises produce, meats in southeastern ND
Updated Nov 29, 2021
CHRISTINE, N.D. – Jen Skoog, who owns Family Roots Farm in the southeastern region of the state, started a farm to be able to raise locally gr…

Northern Ag Expo features numerous informative ag seminars
STATE & REGIONAL
Northern Ag Expo features numerous informative ag seminars
Updated Nov 29, 2021
The 2021 Northern Ag Expo, which will be held at the FargoDome on Nov. 30-Dec. 1, will feature a number of informative seminars. Topics to be …

Carrington FFA team places third at National FFA Convention
STATE & REGIONAL
Carrington FFA team places third at National FFA Convention
Dec 3, 2021
The Carrington FFA team earned top honors during the National FFA Convention, held Oct. 25-30 in Indianapolis, Ind.

Energy crisis globally affecting agriculture
STATE & REGIONAL
Energy crisis globally affecting agriculture
Updated Nov 22, 2021
Ag and energy are closely entwined and the energy crisis across the globe has been impacting U.S. agriculture this year.

Veteran Craig Vaughn enjoys farming/ranching in northeastern ND
STATE & REGIONAL
Veteran Craig Vaughn enjoys farming/ranching in northeastern ND
Updated Nov 12, 2021
CAVALIER, N.D. – Fifth-generation farmer and military veteran Sgt. Craig Vaughn was out removing cornstalks in one of his corn fields on Oct. …

 Marketplace
Find the equipment you're looking for
Search...
Tractors Combines Harvesters Planting Misc Equipment Hay Equipment Trailers Trucks Livestock Seed Feed/Hay
site-logo
  
Search
Contact Us
Work For Us
Publications
Agri-View
Cattle Seller
Farm & Ranch Guide
Farm & Ranch Network
Illinois Farmer Today
Iowa Farmer Today
Livestock Roundup
Midwest Marketer
Midwest Messenger
Minnesota Farm Guide
Missouri Farmer Today
The Prairie Star
Midwest Messenger Kansas
Tri-State Neighbor
Marketplace
Tractors
Combines
Harvesters
Planting
Hay Equipment
Trucks & Trailers
Livestock
Seed, Feed, & Hay
© Copyright 2021 AgUpdate, 707 S 13th Street Tekamah, NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
