Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Bismarck Tribune
ALERT TOP STORY
North Dakota governor looking for tax commissioner appointee
JACK DURA 21 min ago  0
Capitol in frost
Frost blankets the state Capitol grounds in Bismarck.

Mike McCleary
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
JACK DURA
Gov. Doug Burgum is beginning to look for who will be the next state tax commissioner, a person who most likely will face voters next year.

Republican Tax Commissioner Ryan Rauschenberger, who has a history of alcohol problems, resigned last month after being held for detoxification following an alcohol-related disturbance at a hotel. He leaves office Jan. 3.

The governor must appoint someone to fill the last year of his term, which ends Dec. 31, 2022. That person would likely run for election.

Burgum told the Tribune on Monday that "we're still at a point where we're encouraging people that are interested with qualified backgrounds to reach out to our office and indicate interest."

"We're, I think, approaching it the way our administration always has, which is we're trying to find people that have the right combination of leadership skills and policy understanding of the area, the skills they would need to lead that position," the governor said.

People are also reading…
MDU Resources Teen of the Week: Century senior advocates for inclusiveness
North Dakota lawmaker puts downtown Bismarck bars up for sale
Postal Service moving ahead with Mandan post office relocation plans
Bismarck woman revived with Narcan at busy intersection gets year in prison
He pointed out that recent tax commissioners have a history of being appointed and "staying and having an influence on policy, and for a long time in the department."

North Dakota tax commissioner to resign after alcohol incident; will leave office Jan. 3
STATE & REGIONAL
North Dakota tax commissioner to resign after alcohol incident; will leave office Jan. 3
JACK DURA
102020-nws-Gov-Doug-Burgum-3 (copy)
North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum

Ryan Rauschenberger
Ryan Rauschenberger

"We're being very thoughtful about it," said Burgum, who with first lady Kathryn Burgum commended Rauschenberger "for having the courage to take the steps necessary to prioritize his recovery, health and well-being."

Burgum did not say whether his office has interviewed any candidates.

Governor's spokesman Mike Nowatzki said the appointment does not have "a formal application/interview process, in part because of the compressed time frame."

"Names of potential candidates are being submitted/suggested through various channels, and I’d expect an appointment in mid- to late December," Nowatzki said. 

He declined to elaborate on the "various channels."

The appointment will be the third time in Burgum’s tenure that he has filled an elected state office via appointment upon a vacancy. The others were seats on the state Public Service Commission and the Supreme Court, both in 2017.

Through a spokeswoman, Rauschenberger declined an interview.

"He prefers to focus on the appointment of the new commissioner and his/her plans for the agency in the upcoming year," Tax Office spokeswoman Rachael Flagstad said last week.

The Tribune asked her to clarify what Rauschenberger's role is until he departs, and whether he is working on a daily basis.

Flagstad said he "continues to do the duties of the office he was elected to."

The state Tax Office collects more than 90% of general fund revenue. The office has a two-year budget of $64.4 million and is authorized for 118 full-time employees.

Rauschenberger was appointed tax commissioner in 2014, and he won election later that year and in 2018.

The tax commissioner’s annual salary is $121,814.

Reach Jack Dura at 701-250-8225 or jack.dura@bismarcktribune.com.

Tags
Ryan Rauschenberger Doug Burgum Politics Institutes Rachael Flagstad Commissioner Mike Nowatzki Interview State
Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox!
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
JACK DURA
Capitol Reporter

Most Popular
North Dakota ethics measure group considers complaint about commission's transparency
North Dakota ethics measure group considers complaint about commission's transparency
North Dakota's Ethics Commission is taking public comments on draft conflict of interest rules, but no members were present Tuesday for a public hearing.

Federal infrastructure bill's money could tangle with North Dakota spending panel's cap
Federal infrastructure bill's money could tangle with North Dakota spending panel's cap
North Dakota stands to receive at least $2 billion from the federal bipartisan infrastructure bill, but state officials so far have little information about it.

Bismarck-area state representative to make North Dakota Senate bid
Bismarck-area state representative to make North Dakota Senate bid
State Rep. Jeff Magrum is making a bid next year for the open Senate seat in the new District 8. 

Republican announces bid for retiring Democrat's Bismarck-area Senate seat
Republican announces bid for retiring Democrat's Bismarck-area Senate seat
Republican Sean Cleary is seeking the Bismarck-area District 35 Senate seat in 2022.

North Dakota special session costs within budget at $301,000
North Dakota special session costs within budget at $301,000
The cost of North Dakota’s special five-day session last month is within the amount allotted, a legislative budget analyst said Thursday.

North Dakota governor directs flags to half-staff in honor of Bob Dole
North Dakota governor directs flags to half-staff in honor of Bob Dole
Gov. Doug Burgum has directed government agencies to fly the U.S. and North Dakota flags at half-staff in honor and remembrance of former Sena…

New leader named for North Dakota investment agency
New leader named for North Dakota investment agency
Jan Murtha will lead the state Retirement and Investment Office on a permanent basis as executive director.

Bismarck Sen. Oban won't seek reelection, citing erosion of civility in politics
Bismarck Sen. Oban won't seek reelection, citing erosion of civility in politics
Sen. Erin Oban, D-Bismarck, will not seek a third term for the Bismarck-area District 35 Senate seat, citing the divisive nature of current politics.

North Dakota ethics measure group unhappy with draft rules exempting campaign donations
North Dakota ethics measure group unhappy with draft rules exempting campaign donations
Leaders of the 2018 ballot measure that created North Dakota's Ethics Commission say the voter-approved panel's draft conflict of interest rules exempting campaign contributions would be unconstitutional.

North Dakota lawmakers hope for greater civility after retiring senators decry divisiveness
North Dakota lawmakers hope for greater civility after retiring senators decry divisiveness
Some longtime state lawmakers and floor leaders acknowledge a drop in civility in the Legislature in recent years, something lamented by two retiring senators as a creeping national trend.

Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Bismarck Tribune
   
Sites & Partners
Best of the Best
Dakota Classifieds
Mandan News
Jeans Day
Online Features
Services
Circulation/Subscriptions
e-Edition
Work here
Advertise
Events Calendar
Contact Us
Become a Carrier
© Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
