
MARTINSBURG — The Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 83 brought Christmas joy to 100 children in the tri-county area as the officers played Santa Saturday morning.

The Santa with a Badge program allowed the children, who were selected through established criteria and from referrals from schools, churches and other parties, to partner with an officer and select $100 worth of items during a shopping trip to Walmart in Spring Mills.

Smiles could be seen all around as the children perused the toy aisles searching for just the right thing and their police partners assisted in keeping track of the dollars spent.

The program, an annual community project for the FOP Lodge, was put on hold last year, as were so many programs, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ben Holben, secretary for FOP Lodge 83, expressed how excited the members were to be back at doing this holiday event.

“All the officers in the Lodge look forward to this,” Holben shared.

“We are so thankful to all the residents and businesses who donated funds,” he added. “Without their support, we couldn’t do this.”

Holben especially expressed appreciation to Walmart in Spring Mills for allowing the event to be held at their store. In addition to letting the officers and children come in and shop, Walmart officials provided drinks and snacks as well as invited Santa and Mrs. Claus in for photos with the families. Chick-Fil-A, a regular partner in the Santa with a Badge program, also provided food for all attending. Dunkin’ Donuts also provided delicious donuts for everyone.

“We enjoyed helping such a great cause,” said Holly Eiker, Walmart’s front-end manager. “It is great to be able to help,” she added, sharing that additional cashiers were called in to assist with speedy checkout.

Vilma Roberts, whose two sons, Walter and Joshua, were recipients of the FOP Lodge’s generosity, had only positive things to say about the morning’s experience.

“It helps a lot,” Roberts said, adding that having the officers in person also provides a great opportunity for the children to see them serving their community.

“You don’t see officers like this all the time,” Roberts said. “It helps build a good relationship between them and the kids.”

Joshua and Walter enjoyed partnering with Capt. Glenn Stevens, president of FOP Lodge 83 and an officer with the Charles Town Police Department. The brothers were excited to select different Legos as well as several science and experimental items.

“I like the science stuff,” Walter said, showing the selections in his cart.

While the children were certainly excited and grateful for the opportunity to select their own gifts, the offices were just as excited to be a part of such a special event.

“This is the first time I’ve done this,” shared Jefferson County Reserve Officer Linda Wright. “It’s just so amazing,” she added as she spoke of the two children she shopped with — a three-year-old boy who wanted all kinds of trucks and his 12-year old sister who wanted jeans — with holes in them of course.

Officers participating at the Santa with a Badge event came from multiple departments including Charles Town Police Department, Ranson Police Department, West Virginia State Police, Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, Jefferson County Sheriff’s Reserves, Berkeley County Sheriff’s Office, Martinsburg City Police and many retired FOP Lodge members. The children receiving the benefits of the program were selected from Morgan, Berkeley and Jefferson counties.

To find out more about FOP Lodge 83 and how to assist with programs such as Santa with a Badge, find them on Facebook or by visiting their website at www.fop83.org.
