
Through partnerships, there is new hope at New Horizons

By: Nicki Skinner, Editor - Updated: 2 days ago

Posted Dec 3, 2021

  
TAYLOR COUNTY—Two years ago, two organizations decided to come together to help those in the community with disabilities with services and employment.

In November 2019, New Horizons and PACE Enterprises welcomed officials and residents to a ribbon cutting ceremony that symbolized a new hope in Taylor County, as the duo partnered to provide services for adults with disabilities and offer assessment, training and placement for their clients in local businesses.

However, before the partnership could get up and running, the Coronavirus caused shutdowns. And while the virus might have slowed progress down, it couldn’t stop it.

“After years of discussions and planning, we are happy to announce that we are officially up and running,” said Bob Pirner, PACE Director of Development.

Residents with disabilities will be able to find work through the program, reintegrating them into society, in a facility and manner that is suited to their specific needs.

“We are looking forward to giving individuals with disabilities in Taylor County an opportunity to experience the independence that comes from having a job and having somewhere to go to,” said Pirner. “We have a great partnership with Sparkle Janitorial and have employed an individual to carry out designated tasks.”

The joint venture, which Pirner describes as a match made in heaven, came about through a personal friendship between himself and Julie Zuercher, Sparkle Janitorial owner.

“Bob and I are friends, and he mentioned this as a possibility for us,” Zuercher explained. “We have struggled to find folks to help put together orders and do things like labeling, packaging and bottling and he mentioned this might be something that they could help with.”

And after six-to-eight months of discussions, all three organizations decided to pull the trigger and give it a shot.

This is meaningful. This isn’t a make work project, this is the real thing,” Pirner noted. “Julie has customers that are expecting this stuff, so we have to be on time, and we have to do it right.” 

As of right now, one individual is reaping the benefits of the collaboration, and he says that he is happy to be working for the entities.

As part of his duties, Jimmie Mano works to fill bottles with hand sanitizer, label the bottles, package them and the get them ready for delivery.

“We really have to work that the labels stick on there,” he said. “If not, they will fall off.”

Mano is no stranger to the facility and recalls his time working there when the old sheltered workshop was in existence.

Pirner is hopeful that the partnership will only grow and that more and more individuals with disabilities will be able to take advantage of the program. 

“We want local families to know what the possibilities are, because she’s got a lot more work,” he commented. “Julie’s biggest problem is finding people to do the work; she can find the customers. This partnership has been a great thing for all of us.”

New Horizons and PACE are now on a mission to gather a client base for their operation. Those interested in learning more or applying for the program may call the Morgantown office at 304-983-7223 or email info@paceenterprises.org.

 © 2021-Mountain Statesman
