Login
News
Puzzles & Comics
COVID-19 News
Sports
Community
Opinion
Classifieds
Obituaries
E-Paper
App
Public Notices
Mountain State Living Magazine
Contact Us
Subscribe
Shop
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Officials at WVU issue community advisory after finding letter about suicide	
Officials at WVU issue community advisory after finding lett…
MORGANTOWN — Officials at West Virginia University have issu…

Parkersburg man discusses being openly gay race car driver
By EVAN BEVINS, News and Sentinel 16 hrs ago 
Dustin Sprouse
Dustin Sprouse, 35, of Parkersburg, right, was recently featured on si.com, a website for Sports Illustrated where he discussed the challenges he faces a gay dirt track competitor.

Screenshot

    
PARKERSBURG, W.Va. (AP) — An article in the latest issue of Sports Illustrated features a local race car driver and the seeming culture clash he faces as a gay dirt track competitor.

“I’m just an old country boy from West Virginia who happens to be openly gay,” said Dustin Sprouse, 35, of Parkersburg.

The article, “Out on the Track,” was featured last week as a daily cover story at si.com. In it, Sprouse discusses his re-entry into racing last year and the uphill battle he faces in an expensive sport without as many sponsors, and the accompanying financial backing, as some of his opponents.

“I’ve actually had an awesome reaction from people,” he said, noting he received messages of support from as far away as Arizona and Florida after the article was published.

Sprouse started racing in 1999 but got out of the sport in 2010 because it was just too expensive. He dove back in earlier this year and earned Rookie of the Year honors for the Steel Block Late Model Series in which he competes at tracks in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky.

Sponsors are needed to help him maintain his No. 43 car and “move to the next level of my dream come true,” Sprouse said. Gas for the car is $11 a gallon and he burns at least 20 gallons per race. He goes through about six $180 tires in a night.

But he’s had trouble finding sponsors. The article posits that could be related to his sexuality in a sport whose fans tend to lean conservative. Sprouse said he’s not sure of the reason, whether it’s due to economics, the pandemic, his sexuality or his own trepidation about such a reaction.

The article came about with the help of a family friend, former Parkersburg City Councilman Eric Barber.

Barber said he was approached for an interview for a West Virginia PBS documentary about the Jan. 6 breach of the U.S. Capitol. He is scheduled to enter a plea agreement on Dec. 16 after being charged with multiple misdemeanors after he allegedly entered the building with a group of people protesting and attempting to interrupt the certification of the 2020 presidential election.

Barber said he suggested a feature about Sprouse as something more positive but agreed to do the interview if someone would look into his friend’s story. The interviewer passed the idea along, and it eventually wound up in front of Jon Wertheim, who wrote the piece for Sports Illustrated.

“I didn’t even know Eric did it,” Sprouse said.

The friendship between the two is highlighted in the article as another contrast.

Barber was elected to Parkersburg City Council in 2016 as a Democrat but eventually left the party, in part over disagreements about a proposed nondiscrimination ordinance that was rejected by council in 2017. He became outspoken on a variety of conservative topics.

Barber also faced a defamation lawsuit in 2018 after a Facebook comment he made about a local resident in a disagreement over a post about a boy participating in a drag show. It was later dismissed, with a judge saying the matters had been settled.

Barber contends his issues are with “liberals,” not LGBTQ individuals.

“Just because you’re gay doesn’t mean I wouldn’t like you as a person,” he said.

Sprouse said he and Barber have known each other for years and they focus on racing, not politics or lifestyles.

“Racing brings people together as families, no matter who you are,” Sprouse said, noting Barber helps out at times on his crew, which also includes two women.

Barber said he’s focused much more on racing than politics these days and it’s “had a really tremendous impact on my mental health.”

Sprouse is looking forward to the next racing season and trying to raise enough money to attend a week-long competition in Florida in February for a week of racing with the Lucas Oil Dirt Late Model Series.

“(It’s) like taking a high school team against an NFL team,” he said.

Support local journalism.
We are making critical coverage of the coronavirus available for free. Please consider subscribing so we can continue to bring you the latest news and information on this developing story.

For copyright information, check with the distributor of this item, News and Sentinel (Parkersburg, W.Va.).

Tags
General News Gays And Lesbians Automobile Racing Sports Dustin Sprouse Eric Barber Politics Sport Law West Virginia Race Car Driver Parkersburg Racing Sponsor
Locations
West Virginia United States North America Parkersburg
TRENDING VIDEO

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
IU QB Penix entering transfer portal
IU QB Penix entering transfer portal
Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa in all of us.
COMMUNITY COLUMNS
Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa in all of us.
WVU to face Minnesota for first time in Guaranteed Rate Bowl
NEWS
WVU to face Minnesota for first time in Guaranteed Rate Bowl
 +2ND FOOTBALL: Irish to play Oklahoma State in Fiesta Bowl
ND FOOTBALL: Irish to play Oklahoma State in Fiesta Bowl

DAILY COMICS
Monday, Dec. 6, 2021 Comics and Puzzles
Monday, Dec. 6, 2021 Comics and Puzzles
16 hrs ago
NEWSPAPER ADS
OBITUARIES
Vandergrift, Terry
Terry Lynn Vandergrift, 51, of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina formerly of Fairmont passed away at his home on Sunday, December 05, 2021. He was born in Roswell, New Mexico a son of Rodger Denzil and Sarah Lee Ashworth Vandergrift of Fairmont. Terry graduated East Fairmont High School in 1988, …

NEPTUNE, SR., Eric Jul 17, 1938 - Dec 5, 2021
NEPTUNE, SR., Eric Jul 17, 1938 - Dec 5, 2021
Sapp, David
Sapp, David
Meale, Atelio "Ott"
Meale, Atelio "Ott"
Edman, Patricia "Sue"
Edman, Patricia "Sue"
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Rich Rod's arrived in Jacksonville, baggage and all
WVU football exodus continues as two more enter transfer portal
'A new life': Packing company settles in former Coca-Cola bottling plant on East Side
Radford reunion came with free advice
Man handed life sentence for White Hall murder
Fairmont Senior wins back-to-back title with victory over Patriots
Officials at WVU issue community advisory after finding letter about suicide
Big 12 announces all-conference team, award winners
WVU to face Minnesota for first time in Guaranteed Rate Bowl
Fairmont Senior prepares for title defense vs. Patriots
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
timeswv.com
300 Quincy Street, P O Box 2530
Fairmont, WV 26555
Phone: (304) 367-2500
Email: timeswv@timeswv.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Photos
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 Times West Virginian, 300 Quincy Street, P O Box 2530 Fairmont, WV | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
