THE INTELLIGENCER
×
NEWS SPORTS OPINION LIFE OBITUARIES JOBS CLASSIFIEDS PLACE NOTICE
SUBSCRIBE
homepage logo
December 06, 2021 | Today's Paper | Submit News | Subscribe Today | ...
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private sector employers
TOP HEADLINES
DEC 6, 2021


 

FILE - A registered nurse fills a syringe with the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine at a pop-up vaccination site in the Staten Island borough of New York, April 8, 2021. All private employers in New York City will have to require their workers to get vaccinated against COVID-19, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Monday, Dec. 6, imposing one of the most aggressive vaccine rules in the nation. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File)

By MICHELLE L. PRICE and KAREN MATTHEWS Associated Press

NEW YORK (AP) — All private employers in New York City will have to require their workers to get vaccinated against COVID-19, the mayor announced Monday, imposing one of the most aggressive vaccine rules in the nation.

The move by Mayor Bill de Blasio comes as cases are climbing again in the U.S. and the worrisome omicron variant is gaining a toehold in New York and elsewhere around the country.

“We in New York City have decided to use a preemptive strike to really do something bold to stop the further growth of COVID and the dangers it’s causing to all of us,” he said.

De Blasio, a Democrat with just weeks left in office as leader of the nation’s largest city, said the mandate will take effect Dec. 27.

Speaking on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” he said the move is aimed at staving off a spike of infections amid holiday gatherings and as cold weather drives more people indoors, where the virus is more likely to spread.

Vaccine mandates across states and cities vary widely, with some states resisting any mandates and others requiring the shots for government employees or certain sectors that run a particularly high risk, such as health care workers.

But most officials have not announced mandates reaching as far into the private sector, nor mandates covering so many people.

President Joe Biden sought to impose a similar mandate nationally, applying to businesses with 100 or more workers, but federal courts have put that on hold ahead of a Jan. 4 deadline.

De Blasio said he expects his new mandate to survive any legal challenges. A spokesperson for the mayor said it will apply to roughly 184,000 businesses in the city, which has a population of 8.8 million.

Vaccinations are already required for hospital and nursing home workers and for city employees, including teachers, police officers and firefighters. A vaccination mandate for employees of private and religious schools was announced last week.

Also, the mayor announced that anyone 12 or older who wants to dine indoors at a restaurant, go to a gym or see a show will have to produce proof of receiving two shots of the vaccine, up from the current requirement of one dose. In addition, proof of at least one shot will be required of children ages 5 to 11, de Blasio said.

De Blasio, who leaves office at the end of the month and has indicated he may seek the nomination for governor of New York next year, has sought to portray himself as a national leader in the fight against COVID-19.

The mandate takes effect days before de Blasio leaves office and Democrat Eric Adams is due to be sworn into office. Evan Thies, a spokesman for Adams, said in a statement that the mayor-elect “will evaluate this mandate and other COVID strategies when he is in office and make determinations based on science, efficacy and the advice of health professionals.”

Republican Rep. Lee Zeldin of Long Island, who is seeking the GOP nomination for governor, called the newly announced vaccine requirement a “job-killing, small business-suppressing mandate.”

“When you dangerously combine a far-left, lame duck politician, who is anti-business, one-dimensional, unaccountable, not bright and has a perpetual ‘I always know best’ attitude,’ you get Bill de Blasio, the Worst Mayor in America,” Zeldin said in a statement.

___

This story has been corrected to reflect that the deadline for the mandate is Dec. 27.

NEWSLETTER
Today's breaking news and more in your inbox

I'm interested in (please check all that apply)
Daily NewsletterBreaking NewsObituaries
Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? *
YesNo
EMAIL ADDRESS
COMMENTS

TOP HEADLINES

Report: WorkForce West Virginia Paid $83 Million in Bogus Unemployment Claims

Capehart: New Higher Education Formula Needed in West Virginia

Proposals Offer New Future for 1400 Block of Market Street in Downtown Wheeling

Ohio County Sees Big Jump in Weekly New COVID-19 Cases

Senate leader, presidential candidate Bob Dole dies at 98

In democracy’s birthplace, pope warns of populist threats
MOST READ
UL Girls Topple Fort Frye
Senate leader, presidential candidate Bob Dole dies at 98
Wheeling Central Catholic High School Aims for Record Year With Food Drive
John Marshall High School To Continue Tradition With Monarch Tidings Concert
O’Neil, Hodges, Miñoso, Kaat, Oliva, Fowler get baseball HOF
Ortiz Punctuates Nailers’ Weekend With Overtime Winner
NEWSLETTER
Today's breaking news and more in your inbox

EMAIL ADDRESS
I'm interested in (please check all that apply)
Daily NewsletterBreaking NewsObituaries
Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? *
YesNo
homepage logo
twitter iconfacebook icon
NEWS
Top Headlines
Obituaries
Community
National News
TOP SPORTS
Top Sports
High School Sports
OPINION
Editorials
Letters to the Editor
Local Columns
LIFE
Columns
Features
Engagements
Weddings
CONTACT
Submit News
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright © The Intelligencer | https://www.theintelligencer.net | 1500 Main Street, Wheeling, WV 26003 | 304-233-0100 | Ogden Newspapers | The Nutting Company