
'Creepy Christmas' and Sharon Jones holiday concert: Community events this week
Portsmouth Herald








Dover Rotary Holiday Decorations Contest deadline to end is Dec. 6
DOVER — Dover Rotarian elves will be visiting decorated homes in Dover on Dec. 13 and Dec. 14, looking for winners in their second Annual Rotary Club of Dover Holiday Decorations Contest. Deadline to enter: Dec. 6. To enter visit facebook.com/Rotary-Club-of-Dover-Holiday-Decorations-Contest or email jfmunro1954@gmail.com. Winners will be chosen on Dec. 15. The no-fee contest will celebrate community spirit and focus on the festive exterior decorations on homes in Dover, and offer first, second and third place prizes.

Creepy Christmas at Dover Public Library with Jeff Belanger
Jeff Belanger
DOVER — “There’ll be scary ghost stories and tales of the glories of Christmases long, long ago at Dover Public Library on Monday, Dec. 6 at 6:30 p.m. as Jeff Belanger brings back the legends, monsters, and ghosts of the Yuletide season with his presentation "Creepy Christmas." From the origins of the holiday to the monsters like Krampus, the Belsnickel, and Gryla, Belanger will present a multi-media journey both in-person and as a virtual program. One of New England’s premiere legend storytellers, Belanger is the award-winning, Emmy-nominated host, writer, and producer of the New England Legends series on PBS and Amazon Prime, and is the author of over a dozen books on the paranormal. In addition, he hosts the popular New England Legends weekly podcast, and is the series writer and researcher for Ghost Adventures on the Travel Channel.

Registration is required to receive the link for the virtual program at the library’s website. http://www.dover.nh.gov/government/city-operations/library/events/. This program is free and open to the public. It is not suitable for young children.

Sharon Jones to present holiday concert at Rye library
RYE — Sharon Jones is a Seacoast audience favorite and has toured all over the country with her vocals and performances since her graduation from Portsmouth High School. She and her band will be playing standards and a special arrangement of holiday songs at the Rye Public Library on Wednesday, Dec. 8, from 3 to 4 p.m. Limited seating will be available on a first come first serve basis for this performance. All programs are free and open to the public.

'Office Hours with the Manager' at Great Bay National Wildlife Refuge
NEWINGTON - Join Great Bay National Wildlife Refuge manager Matt Hillman on Wednesday, Dec. 8 from 1 to 2 p.m. for an update on the past season and a "sneak peek" look ahead to 2022. There will be a brief presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. Check the refuge's Facebook page for up-to-date information about this event (if in-person, registration is not required; if virtual, registration is required, and a Zoom link will be shared). 

The Dirty Street Grass Company Tour comes to the Stone Church
NEWMARKET - Virginia’s jam and alt-rock outfit Kendall Street Company have teamed up with toe-tappin’ bluegrass quartet The Dirty Grass Players collaborating under the name “The Dirty Street Grass Company” for a show at the Stone Church Music Club in Newmarket on Dec. 8. Tickets for all Dirty Street Grass Company are on sale now, and can be purchased via https://tourlink.to/kscdgp. 

Estate Planning workshops Dec. 9 and 14
ROCHESTER — The Rochester Chamber of Commerce is holding Estate Planning workshops on Dec. 9 and Dec. 14 from 6 to 7:30 p.m. at 59 South Main St., Rochester. This free educational event will explain the estate plan process, the legal documents, how probate works and much more. To register or find out more information call the IFA office at 800-821-1776.

Kittery Art Association All Member Holiday Show through Dec. 2
KITTERY POINT, Maine — With the holidays rapidly approaching, what better way to celebrate than with one of a kind, artisan made gifts? The Kittery Art Association is presenting its annual Holiday Show at its gallery at 8 Coleman Ave., in Kittery Point through Dec. 12. The gallery will be extending hours and will be open on Thursdays and Fridays from 2 to 5 p.m., and Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission to the gallery is free and all are welcome. Masks are required for all gallery visitors. For more information visit www.kitteryartassociation.org, or contact KAA at info@kitteryartassociation.org or call (207)451-9384.

'A Christmas Carol' at Garrison Players Arts Center through Dec. 19
ROLLINSFORD — Performance dates for Charles Dickens’ "A Christmas Carol," are Dec. 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8 p.m. and Dec.12, 19 at 2 p.m. at Garrison Players Arts Center, 449 Roberts ROAD, Rollinsford. Tickets are $20 for adults and $15 for students. At the request of the performers proof of vaccination will be required. Visit www.garrisonplayers.org, or email boxoffice@garrisonplayers.org, or call 603-750-4278 for details, tickets, and volunteer opportunities. 

Jingle Bell Extravaganza at Children’s Museum 
DOVER — Santa is coming to the Children’s Museum of New Hampshire in Dover for a special event called Jingle Bell Extravaganza, This special ticketed holiday event happens Sunday, Dec. 12, from 1 to 2:30 p.m. or 3 to 4:30 p.m., and will include play time in the Museum’s exhibits, as well as a special book reading of The Polar Express by Chris Van Allsburg (copyright 1985), before a socially distanced visit with Santa outside on the Museum’s Play Patio. Masks are required for everyone over the age of 24 months when visiting the museum. CMNH member tickets are $15 per person, or $20 for non-members. Children under 12 months of age are free. Pre-registration and pre-payment is required. Visit www.childrens-museum.org to learn more or to purchase tickets.


