CABINET PRESS
×
NEWS SPORTS OPINION OBITUARIES SPECIAL SECTIONS
Facebook Icon 
homepage logo
December 05, 2021 | Submit News
Knowledge is power: A commitment to sharing good information to make informed decisions
CABINET EDITORIALS
APR 30, 2021

TODD FAHEY
Guest Columnist
twitter
 
Power has many forms. But perhaps the most personal form of power is knowledge. Knowledge to make choices, knowledge about where to find accurate information, and knowledge about reliable places to go to make decisions about the health and well-being of yourself, your family and those you care about. AARP New Hampshire has long been a trusted source of reliable information and now, more than ever, we continue that tradition to ensure we use our voice to share good information to help Granite Staters move through (and beyond) this pandemic as we have done since it first hit New Hampshire in early 2020.

One of the best places to get information about the vaccine New Hampshire’s official website: www.vaccines.nh.gov. The site has excellent information about the vaccines themselves. You can also simply make a call to 2-1-1. That number is available 24/7, but COVID-19 specific operators are available every day 8 am to 8 p.m. If you want facts (as we all should), these are great places to start.

We all just want to know the facts about the vaccine such as is it free and where and when can I get it? It is your choice to be vaccinated for coronavirus. You can depend upon AARP for the reliable information you need to learn about its safety, availability, and effectiveness so you can decide what’s best for you and your family. We have nationwide vaccination information at www.aarp.org/vaccine and local information at www.aarp.org/nhvaccine.

AARP can help you stay informed about all aspects of the coronavirus vaccine. Our dedicated team of reporters update our website (www.aarp.org/coronavirus) in real-time. They have been among the first to report when the vaccine will be available for you and where to get it. AARP New Hampshire staff and volunteers have also hosted tele-town halls for our members featuring guests such as Gov. Chris Sununu, NH Health and Human Services Commissioner Lori Shibinette and our state epidemiologist Dr. Benjamin Chan, who are most knowledgeable about the pandemic and the vaccines as they relate to all Granite Staters. Additionally we have shared valuable information to Granite Staters via email, direct mail, social media, personal contact and blogs. We have always believed in the power of good information and we continually demonstrated that belief from the pandemic’s earliest days to the present day.

But we didn’t stop there.

AARP fought to ensure the coronavirus vaccine is free for all Americans. We’re urging state and local governments to be transparent about their vaccine distribution plans and to keep the public informed. And, they’ve listened. We believe Americans deserve to be fully informed about the vaccine – and that it should be free for anyone who wants it.

Americans 50-plus face higher risks from the coronavirus, especially the Hispanic community. As the rollout continues, AARP will continue fighting to ensure that the vaccine is free and accessible to anyone who wants it, regardless of age, income, race, and ethnicity. Knowledge is power. With vaccines now widely available in New Hampshire to nearly anyone who wants one, it’s only a question of knowledge and choice. Believing that knowledge is power, we here at AARP New Hampshire are committed to sharing good information so you can decide how to keep yourself and your loved ones safe and healthy starting with good information and the knowledge that comes from having both.

Todd Fahey is the AARP New Hampshire state director. He may be reached at tfahey@aarp.org.

COMMENTS

CABINET EDITORIALS
After more than a year at home, now we all can appreciate need to keep people there as they age
Based upon various national and state studies, we at AARP New Hampshire can say with confidence that we know this ...

Nonprofit strategic planning, and why you should care
Have you ever had that feeling that you should probably have paid better attention in a particular class? Perhaps ...

Collaboration is how to solve the mental health crisis in a pandemic
In February 2013, I wrote an Op-Ed about a new record number of individuals who were stuck in New Hampshire ...

Resilience, COVID, safety net and implicit bias
Have you ever had the experience of many random thoughts, seemingly disconnected, yet somehow related, and then ...

COVID-19 has serious impact on people with mental illness
Over the last several months there has been growing awareness of the damage done by the COVID-19 pandemic to not ...

House Republicans ready to work for New Hampshire
There is no secret that this legislative year will be different. Not only are we dealing with how to do our job for ...

MOST READ
homepage logo
facebook icon
NEWSSPORTSOPINIONOBITUARIESCONTACT US
Copyright © The Cabinet Press | https://www.cabinet.com | 167 Elm Street, Milford, NH 03055 | 603-673-3100 | Ogden Newspapers | The Nutting Company