
Search...
User Dashboard
News
Sports
Gorge Life
Business
Opinion
Obituaries
Multimedia
Announcements
e-Edition
Special
Classifieds
Columbia Gorge News Hood River News The Dalles Chronicle White Salmon Enterprise
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
The Dalles to tackle climate crisis: City to create climate change task force
The Dalles City Council decided Monday, Nov. 22, to create a climate change task…

FEATURED
Three dead in collision on I-84 near The Dalles
By Jacob Bertram, Columbia Gorge News Dec 1, 2021 
1 of 2


Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Three people were killed in a head-on collision near The Dalles Dam Tuesday evening, Nov. 30. Oregon State Police officials confirmed in an announcement.

Officials said the incident occurred near milepost 89 in the eastbound lanes of the I-84.

A preliminary investigation conducted by law enforcement shows a driver of a Subaru Forester, 32-year-old McMinnville resident Colin Leas, was driving the wrong way headed west in the eastbound lanes when he collided with a Kia Sorento, driven by 35-year-old Condon resident Jessica Treadwell.

The collision occurred around 5:24 p.m. Officials said both vehicles were engulfed in flames immediately upon impact.

Both drivers and a passenger of the Sorento, 56-year-old Condon resident Lorena Sparkman, suffered fatal injuries and died at the scene, officials said. According to police logs, no one escaped from the vehicles.

The collision routed traffic away from the eastbound lanes of the I-84 for over two hours, officials said.

One eyewitness said the collision occurred right in front of them. The witness said they were driving in the westbound lane a mile before The Dalles Dam exit when the Subaru “flew past us in the east bound lanes.”

OSP was assisted by The Dalles Police Department, Wasco County Sheriff’s Office, Mid-Columbia Fire and Rescue and ODOT.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
Thank you for reading! We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.

Tags
Official Lane Highway Transports Police Motor Vehicle Collision Colin Leas Condon Police Department Eyewitness Sport Driver Passenger Law
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
MORE FROM THIS SECTION
 +2Three dead in collision on I-84 near The Dalles
Three dead in collision on I-84 near The Dalles
The Next Door: Building confidence
The Next Door: Building confidence
Helping children is Giving Tuesday focus for WAGAP: Global generosity movement brings world together Nov. 30
Helping children is Giving Tuesday focus for WAGAP: Global generosity movement brings world together Nov. 30
TOP JOBS
GIS/CAD Technician or Utility Worker
MEDICAL ASSISTANT Columbia Gorge
HOOD RIVER COUNTY IS
ACCOUNTING ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT I
District Manager - The Dalles Irrigation District
View all jobs
SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS
Columbia Gorge News
Sign up to receive notifications when a new Columbia Gorge News e-Edition is published.

News Updates
Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!

Obituary updates
Receive weekly updates on obituaries and death notices.

Oregon Capital Press
Oregon Capital Press presented by Columbia Gorge News

Promotions
Receive updates on upcoming promotions and special sections.

Sports updates
Receive weekly updates on local sports news.

News and Info from our Community Partners

Information from the News and our advertisers (Want to add your business to this to this feed?)

MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Three dead in collision on I-84 near The Dalles
Two White Salmon teenagers crash car into The Hook basin
Deaths and services: Dec. 1, 2021 edition
Drug ring had ties to Hood River
Covid-19 update: County death count continues to rise
Obituary: Teddy Smith
Obituary: Wanda Taylor
Obituary: Dan Lindley
Obituary: Orville Blaylock
Deaths and services: Nov. 24, 2021

SECTIONS
Hood River News
The Dalles Chronicle News
White Salmon Enterprise News
Hood River Sports
The Dalles Chronicle Sports
White Salmon Enterprise Sports
Hood River News Obituaries
The Dalles Chronicle Obituaries
White Salmon Enterprise Obituaries
Local Events
Multimedia
Online Features
SERVICES
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Promote Your Event
Email Alerts
Search
Weather
Marketplace
COLUMBIA GORGE NEWS
columbiagorgenews.com
PO Box 390
Hood River, OR 97031
Phone: 541-386-1234
Email: info@gorgenews.com
   

© Copyright 2021 Columbia Gorge News, PO Box 390 Hood River, OR | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
