Log In
1/1
Monday, December 6, 2021






Link to Owner Dr. Robert B. Pamplin Jr.

HOME
NEWS
OPINION
SPORTS
OBITS
BUSINESS
SHOP LOCAL
CLASSIFIEDS
EVENTS
ABOUT US
SUBSCRIBE
FONT & AUDIO
- A +
SHARE THIS
Facebook 
Twitter 
Google+ 
Email 
LinkedIn
MORE STORIES
PrevNext
Unthwarted, group begins second effort to recall Berschauer
Gary Allen December 03 2021
Save Yamhill County meets qualifications to begin seeking signatures on petitions to oust the controversial county commissioner.
PMG PHOTO: GARY ALLEN - Volunteers from Save Yamhill County gathered near Newberg City Hall on Friday evening to solicit signatures on a petition to recall Yamhill County Commissioner Lindsay Berschauer, as well as Newberg school members Dave Brown and Brian Shannon.
PMG PHOTO: GARY ALLEN - Volunteers from Save Yamhill County gathered near Newberg City Hall on Friday evening to solicit signatures on a petition to recall Yamhill County Commissioner Lindsay Berschauer, as well as Newberg school members Dave Brown and Brian Shannon.


The second iteration to recall a Yamhill County official has begun in earnest.

"Currently, we have over 170 Yamhill County volunteers donating their time toward the effort to recall Commissioner Berschauer," Erin Gardner, campaign manager for Save Yamhill County, said in an email. "We are immensely proud that the bulk of our volunteer base from our first campaign stepped up to get re-trained and will be staying with us through our refiling."

Gardner said she had seen the addition of 50 new volunteers since the organization announced it would begin anew the effort to recall the controversial commissioner, who has been under fire for her disposition and tactics since taking office in January. In late November, the group's first recall effort failed when the organization fell roughly 130 signatures short of the number needed to place the recall on the ballot next year.
Berschauer
Berschauer


That effort was sidetracked when more than 1,500 so-called "E-signatures" were disqualified by the county clerk's office and the Secretary of State's elections division, who said they were collected improperly.

Gardner and the organization are confident they understand, and are administrating the petition signature system properly.

"In terms of campaign logistics, we are focusing on reaching out to voters who've signed our petition before while also continuing to spread the word to voters who may not have been able to participate the first time around," she said. "And we've certainly learned the value of getting everything in writing. We had a dedicated volunteer who monitored all of our compliance and documentation when we refiled to ensure we wouldn't have the type of problem we ran into with our e-sheet the first time."

County Clerk Brian Van Bergen concurred.

"Just like we always do, we attempted to review with them many of the common pitfalls, some of the key timelines, deadlines and what the next steps include as it pertains to the types of signature sheets they submitted for certification," he said. "As best I can tell, they are on the right track with how they plan on proceeding with this second round, and they have properly filed all documentation to match their current plans."
COURTESY PDF: YAMHILL COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE - The Yamhill County clerk's office has approved the paperwork for Save Yamhill County's recall effort against Berschauer.
COURTESY PDF: YAMHILL COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE - The Yamhill County clerk's office has approved the paperwork for Save Yamhill County's recall effort against Berschauer.


Van Bergen added that SYC has until Feb. 14 to turn in the petition signatures. To qualify for the ballot, SYC must collect a minimum of 6,873 verified signatures (15% of the number of votes cast in the last gubernatorial election).

"Our target number for our first campaign was 9,000 signatures," Gardner said. "While it felt ambitious when we set that goal, in the end, we submitted 8,903 signatures. So, for our new campaign, we are sticking with a 9,000-signature target. It's early in the campaign, but as of right now, we are on target and expect to submit signatures ahead of the 90-day deadline."

Gardner added that SYC has also sent letters to "all our previous signers explaining what happened and giving them easy opportunities to resubmit their signature." New and past signers can go online (saveyamhillcounty.com) for more information on participating.

Once the petition signatures are submitted, the clerk's office has 10 days (or within 100 days the recall petition was filed, whichever is sooner) to verify the signatures.

"If enough valid signatures are confirmed before the deadline, the Yamhill County clerk's office will notify both the chief petitioner and the public officer," a statement from the county said. "(Berschauer) is then given five days to either resign or file a Statement of Justification form SEL 352 (explaining why she will not resign).

Once verified, the clerk's office must stage the recall election within 25 days (April 6) if Berschauer doesn't resign by March 2.

Ultimately, Save Yamhill County volunteers saw the reason for their effort affirmed when seeking signatures the first time around.

"After going door to door in every Yamhill County community, and talking to well over 20,000 Yamhill County voters, we feel privileged to have heard not only people's frustrations with our current leadership, but also their hopes for common sense, nonpartisan commissioners that prioritize policies of benefit to our businesses, families and all our citizens," Gardner said. "Those principles remain the core of our effort across campaigns."

Efforts to solicit comment from Berschauer were unsuccessful as of press time Friday afternoon.



You count on us to stay informed and we depend on you to fund our efforts. Quality local journalism takes time and money. Please support us to protect the future of community journalism.



back to top
DAILY NEWS WHERE YOU LIVE
Beaverton	Hillsboro	Prineville
Clackamas	Lake Oswego	Sandy
Canby	Madras	Sellwood
Columbia Co.	Milwaukie	Sherwood
Estacada	Molalla	Tigard
Forest Grove	Newberg	Tualatin
Gladstone	Oregon City	West Linn
Gresham	Portland	Wilsonville
King City	Portland SE	Woodburn
Happy Valley	Portland SW
 

SPECIAL INTEREST
Biz Trib	Public Notices	City Club
FM 101 KXL	Wheels	Offroad Corner
Latest Comments	Social Media
 

Search Articles
 



INSIDERS
Changing Habits

This article brought to you courtesy of Dr. Alan Neal, DMD, FAGD of Dental Care of Canby, Canby Herald Insider Family Dentistry Expert.
Cash-in your Halloween candy!

Brought to you by C. Todd Wilson - Wilson Orthodontics - ORTHODONTICS INSIDER
Why is our office so busy?

Brought to you by C. Todd Wilson - Wilson Orthodontics - ORTHODONTICS INSIDER
Time is running out to use your FSA funds

Brought to you by C. Todd Wilson - Wilson Orthodontics - ORTHODONTICS INSIDER
My Teeth Are In The Cloud?

Brought to you by C. Todd Wilson - Wilson Orthodontics - ORTHODONTICS INSIDER
Scan vs. Goo...Which is Right For You?

Brought to you by C. Todd Wilson - Wilson Orthodontics - ORTHODONTICS INSIDER
Our Publications
Portland Metro Area
Portland Tribune
Beaverton Valley Times
Tigard Tualatin Times
Lake Oswego Review
West Linn Tidings
Wilsonville Spokesman
Hillsboro Tribune
Forest Grove News Times
Newberg Graphic
Clackamas Review
Oregon City News
The Outlook
Sandy Post
Estacada News
Canby Herald
Woodburn Independent
Molalla Pioneer
Columbia County Spotlight
Regal Courier
Sherwood Gazette
The Bee
Southwest Community Connection

Central Oregon
Madras Pioneer
Central Oregonian

Obituaries
Submit an Obituary

Business Tribune
Columns
Public Notices
Oregon Property Foreclosures
Business Calendar
Business Leads
News Links
Plan Center
Marketing

Columns
Public Notices
Oregon Property Foreclosures
Business Calendar
Business Leads
News Links
Plan Center
Marketing

Contract Publishing
Printing and Distribution Services

Special Publications
Public Notices

Digital Advertising
Digital Marketing Solutions

Shop Local
Weekly Ads
This Week's Circulars
Find your Next Vehicle
Special Sections
Insiders

Submit
News Tips
Letters to the Editor
Births | Anniversaries | Weddings | Engagements | Business | Birthday | Obituaries
Community Calendar





Subscribe Today!
Click Here

Advertise with Us
Current Job Openings

Connect with Us!
  

© 2021 Pamplin Media Group | All rights reserved | 6605 SE Lake Rd, Portland, OR 97222 | 503-684-0360 | Privacy Policy | Refund Policy

Go to top
JSN Time 2 is designed by JoomlaShine.com | powered by JSN Sun Framework