Skip to Article

Set weather
oregonlive’s Logo
Subscribe

Sign in
Oregon Tech
Intel’s CEO: Oregon has more at stake than any other state in chip industry’s revival
Updated: Dec. 06, 2021, 2:37 p.m. | Published: Dec. 06, 2021, 12:02 p.m.
Pat Gelsinger, in glasses, suit and tie, on stage.
"We're the only remaining leader in this industry on American soil," Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger told an audience of Oregon business leaders in Portland on Monday. Beth Nakamura/The Oregonian



104
shares
By Mike Rogoway | The Oregonian/OregonLive
Intel’s new chief executive told an audience of Oregon business leaders Monday that the state’s economic fortunes are tied to the future of his industry, pitching a $52 billion federal aid package that would fund new computer chip factories and research.

“You have more at stake in this discussion than any other state in the nation,” CEO Pat Gelsinger said Monday at the Oregon Business Plan’s annual Leadership Summit in Portland. He lobbied for support for the CHIPS Act, which passed the Senate as part of broader legislation in June but is stalled in the House.

Intel is Oregon’s largest corporate employer, with 21,000 workers at its factories and campuses in Washington County. It’s the company’s largest site anywhere, but no Intel CEO had made a public appearance in Oregon in more than a decade before Gelsinger’s address Monday.

Intel is trying to dig out of a decade of manufacturing failures under Gelsinger’s predecessors, a miserable stretch that cost the company its technological leadership. Two Asian companies, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and Samsung, now make the most advanced chips.

Gelsinger, hired in June, has committed tens of billions of dollars to new factories and research in hopes Intel can claw its way back into the technological race. He’s counting on several billion dollars from the CHIPS Act to offset the company’s costs.

Intel is the last American company making leading-edge chips, Gelsinger said, a loss he attributed to the billions of dollars in subsidies Taiwan, South Korea and China pay semiconductor manufacturers.

“We need help,” Gelsinger said Monday.

26
2021 Oregon Leadership Summit
Intel is building two new factories in Arizona, and Gelsinger has said he plans to announce a European factory and one at a new U.S site, too. But he said the industry’s economics still favor Asia, and he said that represents an economic and security weakness for the West.

“We’re depending on very fragile, concentrated supply chains in Asia,” Gelsinger said. Brand-new, $40,000 autos are being left unfinished for want of a $2 computer chip, he said, arguing that all manner of products are becoming more dependent on computer chips to perform basic functions.

That could benefit Oregon, which has a concentration of chip manufacturers that includes many other companies besides Intel – among them Qorvo, ON Semiconductor and Microchip Technologies.

Oregon offers some of the country’s biggest manufacturing tax breaks. Intel’s Hillsboro factories enjoy property tax exemptions worth $173 million this year alone – and $760 million over the past five years.

While Intel is wrapping up a $3 billion expansion of its D1X research factory in Hillsboro, no chipmaker appears to be planning new Oregon factories in the near future, in large degree because the state doesn’t have huge parcels of readily available industrial land.

In May, though, Gelsinger told The Oregonian/OregonLive that Intel will expand here eventually. And U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden, who introduced Gelsinger at the leadership summit, said Monday he will help lead a new task force on growing Oregon’s chip industry.

Skeptics warn that the CHIPS Act may ultimately prove ineffective because other countries are responding with plans to ramp up their own chip subsidies. Others have questioned whether the current bill sets aside too much funding for building factories on aging technologies and too little on research that could restore American manufacturing leadership.

The proposal, though, is the rare piece of federal spending that has solid bipartisan support. Wrangling over other priorities appears to have delayed it, but political observers expect it will pass late this year or early in 2022.

A veteran Intel engineer, Gelsinger lived in Oregon for 25 years when he was among the company’s top technologists. He left the company in 2009 and moved to Silicon Valley, becoming CEO of software maker VMware in 2012. He returned to Intel this year after selling the board on an expensive turnaround plan that has alarmed investors but energized employees.

On Monday, Gelsinger reminisced about raising his family in Oregon – teaching his kids to ski on Mount Hood and Mount Bachelor and enjoying a vacation home at Sunriver. He said he hadn’t realized it had been a decade before an Intel CEO had addressed a public audience in Oregon.

“That was long overdue,” he said. “You’ll be seeing a lot more of me.”

-- Mike Rogoway | mrogoway@oregonian.com | Twitter: @rogoway | 503-294-7699

Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.

Average Retirement Savings By Age: Are You Normal?
Speaking with a financial advisor could help.
SmartAsset
|
Sponsored
Here Are 23 of the Coolest Gifts for This 2021
Great gifts you can buy for $60 or less.  Available now, before “Black Friday” Shortages.
National Penny Gift Guide
|
Sponsored
Canzano: Oregon Ducks football has only two choices after the departure of Mario Cristobal
Mario Cristobal is gone... what next?
OregonLive.com
These Cars Are So Loaded It's Hard to Believe They're So Cheap
New cars are selling for a fraction of their value!
Luxury SUVs | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Advance Local logo
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement updated 5/1/2021).

Cookies Settings

© 2021 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.

Ad Choices

