
Kyle Hunter recently joined Curry Health Network in Gold Beach.

Before moving to Gold Beach, Hunter was regional director of patient safety for a hospital system in Wisconsin, where most of her duties were administrative. At CHN, Hunter will return to a more hands-on experience as administrator and chief nursing officer.

“I’ve always believed that quality happens where the work is done at the bedside,” said Hunter. “I’m looking forward to getting closer to the people who deliver exceptional care and working with the nursing teams. They’re great collaborators.”

Amid a national nursing shortage - a crisis predicted to last until at least 2030 - Hunter said she plans to make recruitment and retention her top priorities.

“Staffing is a huge issue,” said Hunter. “There’s a nursing shortage across the U.S., and CHN hasn’t been unscathed by this.”

Although the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic brought the shortage to the forefront, it has been a problem since at least 2012 due to retiring baby boomers, an aging population, faculty shortages in higher education and fewer nurses involved indirect patient care.

“One focus is obvious, we need to recruit nurses,” Hunter said. “We’re in a remote area. It’s very rural and there are few local schools graduating new nurses each year.”

The small number of nursing graduates, combined with a need for nurses who are passionate about working and living in a rural community, highlights Hunter’s second focus – retention.

“I’m really excited about the work we’re doing at Curry to develop a retention strategy,” she said. “As important as it is to be able to recruit, we want to do everything we can to be the employer of choice and keep the great staff we have.”

Some of these strategies will include holding focus groups with staff to determine what’s working well, and where the organization can enhance patient care.

“It’s about me helping the teams, ensuring they have the tools, resources, and education to deliver quality patient care, and to receive the right pay and benefits,” Hunter said.

Hunter added that she is excited to be working in a smaller environment.

“Our patients appreciate the smaller environment too,” she said. “They appreciate the hometown feel and the special touches that we are able to offer in a community hospital.”

Joining Hunter are her husband, Neale, and the family dog, Mocha.

“We have horses around us, so Mocha is getting used to that and it’s kind of funny to watch,” she said. “Neale has taken up salmon fishing. He’s talked with locals to get fishing tips and has made several attempts, but so far it’s been fishing and not catching,” she added with a laugh.

CHN has four locations in Curry County, with two in Gold Beach and the others in Brookings and Port Orford. The network posted almost $48 million in revenue in June and has 315 employees.
