Zionsville out-lasts Westfield in double OT thriller
By Will Willems will.willems@reporter.net Dec 3, 2021 
Nick Richart West.jpg
Nick Richart had a double-double in the Eagles’ double overtime win over Westfield.

Will Willems I The Lebanon Reporter

    
WESTFIELD — The Zionsville boys basketball team is no stranger to close games.

The No. 2 Eagles had their third down-to-the-wire contest of the season in as many games Friday night, facing seventh-ranked Westfield on the road.

And just as they had the first two games this year, the Eagles found a way to get the job done. Zionsville topped Westfield 67-65 in double overtime, improving to 3-0 on the year.

Zionsville head coach J.R. Howell said that it wasn’t just the experiences from wins over Carmel and Ben Davis this year, but the experiences from a lot of close games last year that made the difference on Friday.

“When you look at some of our games from last year, we were right there and couldn’t convert or couldn’t get a stop when we needed to,” Howell said. “This year, we have turned that around. The kids have worked so hard to make sure they can succeed in those moments, they love playing together and it’s good to see all that hard work pay off.”

The Eagles were 5-4 in games decided by three points or less a season ago, and had a couple other games that were within a possession heading into the final couple of minutes.

Howell said the biggest difference this year has been the maturity and experience of the group.

“We have four starters back that played significant minutes for us last year, and then Isaiah (Davis) who is in his third year of varsity basketball,” Howell said. “Bringing that experience back is huge. These guys have been in these situations, and they know what they need to do in tight games. We have had tremendous leadership and maturity this year and the guys just love being together. Every time someone hits a shot, everybody on the court or the bench is up cheering and being involved – that’s great to see.”

The game was tight throughout.

Westfield led 13-7 after one, but the Eagles came back in the second and cut the lead to one at 30-29.

Zionsville then started the second half on an 11-0 run, taking a 40-30 lead, but the Shamrocks got back within 44-41 at the end of the quarter.

Westfield came back to take a 50-49 lead with 4:01 to go in regulation, before the Eagles reclaimed the lead at 53-50. Westfield tied the game with 2:03 to go, and neither team scored the rest of regulation.

Neither team gained much separation in the first overtime, and the score was tied 59-59 after the four-minute extra session.

“As a coach, you just want to keep the guys focused and relaxed in those spots,” Howell said. “We talked about putting together stops and rebounds. Our defense had been pretty solid throughout, they had hit a could of shots, but it was just back-and-forth and a fun game to be a part of. That’s what it is all about really. It was a fantastic atmosphere, a lot of ups and downs, and we stayed mentally tough and got a big win.”

Logan Imes and Isaiah Davis had 18 points apiece for the Eagles.

Nick Richart had 12 points and 12 rebounds, with Johnathan MacAbee adding 10 and Edward Thomas 7.

Zionsville, now 3-0 with three top-23 wins, heads south to face New Albany Saturday night.

“There is nothing easy about that trip,” Howell said. “We are coming off an emotional, taxing, double overtime game against a big conference rival, and are going to face a very good, well-coached team. It’s a long 2 1/2 hour bus ride and coming off a win elevates some of that and brings some positive vibes. We have to take the good from tonight and bring it in to (today) and hopefully play well enough to get a win.”