The best meteor shower of the year brings nightly views for over 2 weeks Geminids Meteor shower stars Dec. 3 and peaks Dec. 14 One of green-glowing meteors over squaw ... Hyoung Chang, The Denver Post One of green-glowing meteors streaks across the sky over squaw pass on Dec. 14, 2018, near Evergreen. The annual Geminids meteor shower is one of the best times to see shooting stars. By JAKE SHAPIRO | jshapiro@denverpost.com | The Denver Post December 3, 2021 at 9:21 a.m. 0 One of the best meteor showers of the year begins this weekend, and you can catch the shooting stars at night over the next few weeks. The Geminids meteor shower begins Friday night and will be active through Dec. 17, reaching a peak in the early hours of Dec. 14. Experts say the best time of night to catch them while they’re active is at about 2 a.m., but beware the moon washing out the fainter meteors. According to EarthSky.org, Geminid meteors tend to be bold, white and quick. The shower is better seen in Earth’s Northern Hemisphere, originating from a rock comet called 3200 Phaethon. During the shower’s peak, between 50 to 150 meteors per hour are visible if the sky is dark. The best places to view the spectacle are from dark-sky locations. Jackson Lake State Park, about an hour from Denver, is possibly the closest spot for Denverites, while Dinosaur National Monument and the Great Sand Dunes National Park are great sites for stargazing statewide. Even closer to Denver, the Majestic View Nature Center in Arvada is hosting a viewing on Dec. 13 in the evening. RELATED ARTICLES A battle between pedaling and peace heats up over plans for mountain bike park in Conifer This Estes Park destination was named one of 10 Best Family Resorts by USA Today Free museum days, ice skating, a campy Christmas and more things to do this weekend in Denver Longmont photographer wins big with “Ninja Prairie Dog” picture If you’re hankering for cross country skiing, head to Breckenridge Here are some tips from NASA for viewing the Geminids: The Geminids are best viewed during the night and predawn hours and are visible across the globe due to a nearly 24-hour broad maximum. This shower is considered one of the best opportunities for young viewers since this shower starts around 9 or 10 p.m. To view the Geminids, find an area well away from city or street lights. Come prepared for winter temperatures with a sleeping bag, blanket or lawn chair. Lie flat on your back with your feet facing south and look up, taking in as much of the sky as possible. After about 30 minutes in the dark, your eyes will adapt and you will begin to see meteors. Be patient — the show will last until dawn, so you have plenty of time to catch a glimpse.