Your guide to holiday shows and events this season in Pueblo Lacey Latch The Pueblo Chieftain Editor's note: This is a running list and will be updated when new events are announced. The holidays are quickly approaching, and that means holiday events to celebrate the festive season. The following is a list of holiday-themed events happening in Pueblo this December. Steel City Theatre's 'A Christmas Carol' Steel City Theatre Company's adaptation of Charles Dickens' classic story uses only a handful of actors to bring his beloved characters to life. The cast uses only simple props, physicality and imagination to recreate this timeless story of redemption during the holiday season. The theater is located at 241 S. Union Ave. Shows are 7:30 p.m. Dec. 3, 4,10, 16 and 18; and 2 p.m. Dec. 5, 11 and 19. Tickets can be purchased online.  Holiday Fashion Preview and Luncheon  Sponsored by  Assistance League of Pueblo, the Holiday Fashion Preview and Luncheon is set from 9:30 to 3 p.m. Dec. at the Pueblo Convention Center. Sponsored by the Assistance League Pueblo, all proceeds from this 32nd annual fundraiser will go to support Operation School Bell, a program assisting children in need with new school clothes, age-appropriate books and health hygiene kits. The fundraiser will feature an expanded holiday boutique, a new silent auction, holiday music, entertainment and a fashion show by Dillard's. Tickets can be purchased for $65 over the phone at  508-0848 or online.  Tea with Mrs. Claus Rosemount Museum will host Tea with Mrs. Claus from noon to 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Dec. 4 at the Carriage House Restaurant at the Rosemount Museum, 419 W 14th St. Hosted by the Pueblo Rape Crisis Services, families from across Pueblo are invited to join Mrs. Claus for some tea as she shares some of her favorite holiday stories. Tickets are available online. Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account Skate with Santa Pueblo Ice Area will host a skate with Santa from noon to 2:30 p.m. Dec. 4 Hit the ice with Santa himself and talk about what you hope to see under the Christmas tree as you glide around the rink. Cookies and cocoa will also be available for skaters. Tickets can be bought at the door with each skater costing just $2.   Bells of Christmas Craft Show Holiday shopping, arts, crafts, food and more will be available at the Colorado State Fairgrounds from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dec. 4 and 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dec. 5 at the creative arts building on the Colorado State Fairgrounds. Kids can visit with Santa Claus and make a free holiday photo frame from 10 to 11 a.m. both days. Sensory Friendly Event at Pueblo Mall The Pueblo Mall, in partnership with Autism Speaks, will host a sensory friendly event for kids to visit with and take photos with Santa at the Pueblo Mall from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Dec. 5. The event takes place before the mall opens. Registration is available online. Trending:Comanche 3 to close early but settlement assures millions for Pueblo County 10th annual Festival of Trees The 10th annual Festival of Trees will take place at the Historic Union Depot from 5 to 7 p.m. Dec. 9. The Festival of Trees features Christmas trees decorated by local businesses and organizations that have been put up for silent auction. Hosted by the Latino Chamber of Commerce and United Way of Pueblo County, tickets for this event can be purchased online for $10 each. Steel City Theatre's 'Santa Claus is Comin to Town?' Steel City Theatre Company will also host "Santa Clause is Coming to Town," featuring young actors from third to eighth grade. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. Dec. 9, 11 and 17; and at 2 p.m. Dec. 12 and 18. The performance is a lighthearted production. As Christmas Eve approaches and Santa is unable to drive his sleigh, a group of young elves excitedly take on the task of delivering all the gifts in time. Tickets can be purchased online.  Pueblo Express Christmas trains Head over to the Pueblo Railway Museum behind the Historic Union Depot to check out some of the train yard's most notable locomotives donned with holiday lights and offering train rides. Christmas cookies in the diner car, the flatcar full of holiday inflatables and a Christmas-themed model train display are free of charge to all visitors. Rides on the full-size train are $15 for a locomotive ride and $8 for a caboose ride. Children under three and senior citizens ride for free. Hours are 4 to 8 p.m. Dec. 11, 17, 18 and 24. Tickets can be purchased at the door, cash or check only.  ElectriCritters continues at The Pueblo Zoo Lighting up Pueblo's holiday season for nearly three decades, the Pueblo Zoo ElectriCritters continues to mix a love of animals with the unique festivity of the season. With each animal custom-designed for the event each year, you never quite know what you'll see when walking through the park. Visitors can also take a break from the lights and warm up with cocoa and a cookie at the zoo's Candy Cane Café. Advance tickets are encouraged and can be purchased online. Tickets are also available at the door. Admission is $9 for adults and $7 for children, members will receive a $2 discount per ticket. Kids under two get in for free.  Hours are 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. until Dec. 12 and from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Dec. 17 to Dec. 23 and Dec. 26. 11th annual Celebrate Christmas  The 11th annual Celebrate Christmas: It's all about the child event is set for 6 p.m. Dec. 11 at Pueblo Christian Center, 1605 S. Pueblo Blvd. The free event will feature musical artists performing holiday classics. Admission is free, but event-goers are asked to bring an unwrapped toy for a child or gift for a teenager. The gifts will be donated to children and teens who are being served through the Pueblo County Department of Social Services Child Welfare Division. For more information, email southerncoloradocc@hotmail.com or call 671-5451. US Army 4th Infantry Band Sounds of the Holidays Featuring a full Big Band jazz ensemble, join the US Army 4th Infantry Division Band for a free concert to celebrate the sounds of the holiday season. This event is free and open to the public and begins at 7 p.m. Dec. 14 at Pueblo Memorial Hall, 1 City Hall Pl. Complimentary tickets can be picked up at the Pueblo Memorial Hall Box Office. 'White Christmas' from Musical Community Performance Musical Community Productions will host its annual Christmas performance from Dec. 16 to Dec. 18 at the Sangre de Cristo Arts and Conference Center, 210 N. Santa Fe Ave. Packed with dance numbers and iconic songs, this presentation of Irving Berlin's "White Christmas" will be sure to rock the Arts Center stage this winter. Tickets can be purchased online.  Performances are scheduled for 7:30 p.m. Dec. 16 and 17 and 1 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Dec. 18. Pueblo Choral Society: 'An Old Fashioned Christmas' Now in its 36th season, Pueblo Choral Society is hosting a free concert to celebrate the Christmas season at 3 p.m. Dec. 18 at Pueblo Memorial Hall. The show will also feature guest artists including Pueblo Children's Chorale, CSU Pueblo Clarinet Choir, Sunday Strings and Colorado State University Pueblo Brass Choir among others. Free tickets can be picked up at the Memorial Hall box office.  Pueblo Municipal Band Holiday Concert The Pueblo Municipal Band will host its free holiday concert at 2 p.m. at the arts center on Dec. 19. This free concert is presented as a gift to the community by the Midtown Association as the Pueblo Municipal Band takes the stage to ring in the holiday season. Doors open at 2 p.m. with first-come, first-serve seating. Winter Solstice Lantern Parade The Pueblo Friends of the Arkansas River welcomes the community to join them for a walking parade along the Pueblo Levee River Trail to celebrate the shortest day of the year. The parade will take place from 4:45 to 7 p.m. on Dec. 21 at Pillar Park. Community drumming is scheduled to start at 4:45 p.m. before the mass of people with lanterns heads over the pedestrian bridge toward the levee murals. This event is free and open to the public.