Skip to main content missoulian.com EDITOR'S PICK ALERT TOP STORY Missoula Food Bank aims to raise $300K in December amid escalating costs David Erickson 27 min ago  0 1 of 2 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save David Erickson With the prices of consumer goods jumping in the U.S. this fall and home prices escalating in Missoula, food insecurity remains a grave concern for thousands of people in western Montana. The Missoula Food Bank and Community Center recently kicked off its 36th annual Holiday Drive, which is the nonprofit’s most important fundraiser of the year. The organization is trying to raise $300,000 in December to support a number of direct nutrition programs. The monetary goal is a big increase over the past three years, when the aim was $250,000. “We have all noticed the rising cost of food,” said executive director Aaron Brock. “It’s a factor that has impacted the food bank as well. And we have, again, seen several of our larger food drives canceled during this second year of the ongoing pandemic." Holiday Food Drive Dec. 6 The food bank relies on the Holiday Drive to ensure they have the purchasing power to sustain all their nutrition programs, he noted. People are also reading… Missoula car chase suspect jailed on $250K bond Engen addresses controversial Missoulian building project Missoula woman accused of trafficking 17 pounds of meth Bill Speltz: With mad-dog determination, Griz flip the shootout script on Eastern Washington The food bank served one-fifth of all county residents in 2021. They operate an emergency food pantry, called the "store" program, where any family who needs it can access healthy groceries for their household for free. "Our customers come from all over Missoula County, and people walk through our doors for so many different reasons,” said operations manager Kellie Hess. “Working-class families are struggling in this housing market.” She noted that the coldest months of the year are the busiest for the food bank as people struggle with higher energy bills and have to purchase warmer clothes for kids. “We see a lot of our neighbors who are aging, and also those living with disabilities who are on extremely fixed incomes and are deeply affected by the rising cost of living, including food,” Hess said. “We also see many families with young children, where childcare takes up a large portion of their monthly budget.” The food bank operates nutrition programs for kids and seniors. Every summer, they help 1,100 children each weekend with to-go packs of food and another program delivers 600 meals a month to homebound seniors. Tax-deductible gifts can be made online at missoulafoodbank.org, by mail to 1720 Wyoming Street, Missoula, MT 59801, or in person at the same address. “This is a time of extreme gratitude at the food bank,” says Jessica Allred, director of development and advocacy. “We know that none of the work we do is possible without the support of this community. We see the impacts of Missoula’s generosity every day as families leave our building with food they will literally be putting on the table for tonight’s dinner.” Missoula Food Bank & Community Center’s 36th Annual Holiday Drive runs through Dec. 31. You must be logged in to react. Click any reaction to login. Tags Missoula Missoula Food Bank Food Insecurity Montana Fundraiser Food Food Bank Holiday Economics Commerce Finance Nutrition Pantry Drive Get local news delivered to your inbox! Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. ericksonmedia David Erickson Business Reporter Author twitter Author email Related to this story Researcher: Rent-to-income ratios correlate to homelessness rates in Montana Researcher: Rent-to-income ratios correlate to homelessness rates in Montana In 2020, 14.5 out of every 10,000 Montana residents experienced homelessness, a 13.9% increase from 2019 and a 34.3% increase from 2007. Engen addresses controversial Missoulian building project Engen addresses controversial Missoulian building project "Despite what you may have read on social media, my magic wand does not allow me to pick and choose who buys and sells..." mayor John Engen said on Monday. Missoula City Council adopts cannabis business regulations Missoula City Council adopts cannabis business regulations Recreational adult-use cannabis will be available for purchase to anyone over the age of 21 in Missoula County starting on Jan. 1. Planning meeting for Missoulian building canceled Planning meeting for Missoulian building canceled A planning meeting for a proposed $100 million redevelopment of the Missoulian site has been canceled due to insulting comments made by one of the investors in the project. Business Buzz: Downtown building to be renovated Business Buzz: Downtown building to be renovated The building that housed The M Store in downtown Missoula will get a new facade, and the Missoula Food Bank has started its Holiday Drive. Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps missoulian.com    Sites & Partners Ravalli Republic Missoula.com Auto Finder Western Montana Wedding Magazine Newcomers Special Sections Services Contact Us E-Edition Subscribe Work here Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 Missoulian, 500 S. Higgins Missoula,MT | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 