Skip to main content Back to homepage You have an ad blocker enabled Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​ Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Bismarck Tribune TOP STORY Trial set for Mandan man charged with driving drunk with children Bismarck Tribune staff Dec 6, 2021 Updated 3 hrs ago  0 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Atrial date has been set for a Mandan man facing four felony charges for allegedly driving drunk with two children in the car. Anthony Barse pleaded not guilty Monday to charges of driving under the influence with a minor, child neglect, preventing arrest and fleeing a peace officer, as well as a misdemeanor driving under suspension charge. The trial date is set for March 23. Bismarck police in an affidavit from September allege that Barse failed to stop when an officer attempted to pull him over and was uncooperative with police, who said they had to use "a substantial amount of force" to get him into handcuffs. Police also said they found two young children sleeping unsecured in the back seat of Barse's car and a bottle of whiskey in the driver door. Anthony Barse mug Anthony Barse PROVIDED Sign up for our Crime & Courts newsletter Get the latest in local public safety news with this weekly email. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Related to this story Mandan man charged with drunk driving with children Mandan man charged with drunk driving with children A Mandan man faces four felony charges after Bismarck police stopped his vehicle over the weekend and determined that he was driving drunk wit… Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Bismarck Tribune     Sites & Partners Best of the Best Dakota Classifieds Mandan News Jeans Day Online Features Services Circulation/Subscriptions e-Edition Work here Advertise Events Calendar Contact Us Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 