Skip to main content Back to homepage You have an ad blocker enabled Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​ Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Bismarck Tribune ALERT TOP STORY Active COVID-19 cases in North Dakota drop over weekend; 3 new deaths reported Bismarck Tribune staff 7 hrs ago  0 CoronaLogo Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Bismarck Tribune staff Active cases of COVID-19 in North Dakota on Monday dropped after a low-testing day. The state Health Department's coronavirus dashboard showed 109 newly confirmed COVID-19 cases, 2,883 active cases with 485 in Burleigh-Morton counties, and three new deaths. Those deaths brought the pandemic total to 1,915, with 118 in November. Filing of official death certificates can take up to 10 days under state law. The state no longer publicly reports the county, sex and age range of newly confirmed deaths. Burleigh and Morton counties have had 265 and 126 deaths, respectively. The state's 14-day rolling average test positivity rate, at 7.6%, was the highest in six weeks, and continued to be well above the state target of less than 5%. There have been 164,811 confirmed COVID-19 cases in North Dakota during the pandemic, with 160,013 recoveries and 6,583 hospitalizations. People are also reading… Longtime homeowner unable to find her original deed Chick-fil-A restaurant to open in Bismarck on Thursday; traffic guidelines issued Ice formation expected on Missouri River; Bismarck-Mandan gets first significant snowfall Postal Service moving ahead with Mandan post office relocation plans Active hospitalizations dropped by five from Friday, to 172.  The onset of the highly contagious delta variant of the coronavirus in late summer has driven the spike in COVID-19 data in North Dakota in recent months. State health officials are now monitoring for the arrival of the new omicron variant, which scientists are still studying to determine its potential impacts. Dakotas pediatricians urge child COVID-19 vaccinations as omicron emerges in US HEALTH Dakotas pediatricians urge child COVID-19 vaccinations as omicron emerges in US BLAKE NICHOLSON Much remains unknown, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, whether it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccines. The first U.S. omicron case was documented Wednesday in California, in a vaccinated traveler who had recently traveled to South Africa. At least 15 states including Minnesota have identified omicron cases. More information The vaccine dashboard shows 57.5% of eligible North Dakota adults, 35.3% of adolescents in the 12-18 age group and 3.7% of children ages 5-11 are considered fully vaccinated. People can go to ndvax.org or call 866-207-2880 to see where COVID-19 vaccine is available near them. The CDC recommends COVID-19 booster shots for all adults. About 16% of North Dakotans have received a third dose of vaccine, but the dashboard does not distinguish between how many received a third dose because they are immunocompromised and how many received a general booster dose. The coronavirus transmission risk is considered high in all of North Dakota's 53 counties except Burke, Renville and Slope, according to the CDC's COVID-19 data tracker website.The CDC recommends people in those risk categories wear masks in public indoor settings. A list of free COVID-19 testing offered by local public health units is at health.nd.gov/covidtesting. For more detailed information on coronavirus in North Dakota, go to health.nd.gov/coronavirus. For more information on coronavirus variants, go to cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/transmission/variant.html. Reach Jack Dura at 701-250-8225 or jack.dura@bismarcktribune.com. Tags Coronavirus Active Covid-19 Booster Shot Medicine Immunology Cdc Risk Dashboard Dose Concerned about COVID-19? Sign up now to get the most recent coronavirus headlines and other important local and national news sent to your email inbox daily. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Most Popular Dakotas pediatricians urge child COVID-19 vaccinations as omicron emerges in US Dakotas pediatricians urge child COVID-19 vaccinations as omicron emerges in US More than 200 pediatricians in the Dakotas are urging parents to vaccinate their children against COVID-19 due to the emerging omicron variant. 15 more COVID-19 deaths in North Dakota; booster shots urged due to omicron 15 more COVID-19 deaths in North Dakota; booster shots urged due to omicron North Dakota health officials on Tuesday reported 15 new coronavirus-related deaths, and active COVID-19 cases took a big jump as testing pick… Biden vaccine rule for health workers blocked in 10 states including North Dakota Biden vaccine rule for health workers blocked in 10 states including North Dakota JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) — A federal judge on Monday blocked President Joe Biden’s administration from enforcing a coronavirus vaccine mandate… Active COVID-19 cases in North Dakota hit 2-week high; 9 more deaths confirmed Active COVID-19 cases in North Dakota hit 2-week high; 9 more deaths confirmed Active cases of COVID-19 in North Dakota on Thursday rose to their highest point in two weeks, and the state's pandemic death toll surpassed 1,900. North Dakota health officials testing for omicron, urging COVID-19 vaccinations in advance of new variant North Dakota health officials testing for omicron, urging COVID-19 vaccinations in advance of new variant North Dakota health officials are testing for the concerning new variant of the coronavirus and urging residents to get the COVID-19 vaccine o… Public COVID-19 testing sites in the region Public COVID-19 testing sites in the region Free public COVID-19 testing is available throughout the region. Here's a roundup of area testing sites. North Dakota coronavirus news, Dec. 6: Tribal college launches food pantry North Dakota coronavirus news, Dec. 6: Tribal college launches food pantry The latest North Dakota coronavirus news: college food pantry, organic aid and more. Permitting process for medical marijuana underway in South Dakota PIERRE, S.D. — The South Dakota Department of Health is beginning to issue medical marijuana cards, but officials say it could be months befor… Noem wants to push anti-abortion argument to Supreme Court Noem wants to push anti-abortion argument to Supreme Court SIOUX FALLS, S.D. — South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem on Monday sought a leading role in a pair of legal battles over abortion access as the U.S. … Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Bismarck Tribune     Sites & Partners Best of the Best Dakota Classifieds Mandan News Jeans Day Online Features Services Circulation/Subscriptions e-Edition Work here Advertise Events Calendar Contact Us Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 