Skip to main content Back to homepage You have an ad blocker enabled Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​ Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Bismarck Tribune ALERT TOP STORY Bismarck-area state representative to make North Dakota Senate bid JACK DURA 7 hrs ago  0 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save ABismarck-area state lawmaker is making a bid to jump from the House to the Senate next year. Rep. Jeff Magrum, R-Hazelton, announced his state Senate bid on Monday. He was first elected in 2016 to represent District 28, of south-central North Dakota. After the Legislature reapportioned its districts last month from 2020 census data, Magrum is in the new District 8, which has an open Senate seat on the 2022 ballot. The district comprises Emmons County, southern Burleigh County and the Lincoln area. He said his Senate bid reflects his "firm belief in term limits," citing a proposed ballot measure he supports for term limits for the governor and Legislature. North Dakota term limits measure approved for signature-gathering GOVT-AND-POLITICS North Dakota term limits measure approved for signature-gathering JACK DURA Magrum is a rancher and master plumber. In the 2021 Legislature, he led the so-called "stand your ground" bill which expands a person's rights to use deadly force in certain instances. He advocated election-integrity bills in the wake of the 2020 presidential election. North Dakota had no documented election fraud in 2020, and President Donald Trump's claims of widespread fraud in the national election have been rejected by election officials, judges and Trump's attorney general at the time. People are also reading… Chick-fil-A restaurant to open in Bismarck on Thursday; traffic guidelines issued Williston man tried for allegedly running down neighbors, killing 1 North Dakota lawmaker puts downtown Bismarck bars up for sale North Dakota medical board disciplines 11 doctors this year, including Bismarck man Magrum also has been a vocal opponent of mask and vaccination mandates. Rep. Jeff Magrum, R-Hazelton, speaks in support of a bill banning mask mandates. He and fellow District 28 Rep. Mike Brandenburg, R-Edgeley, have clashed, notably in 2019 at an Emmons County Commission hearing on wind turbine regulations.  Magrum questioned Brandenburg's loyalties in an outburst that lasted several minutes. Brandenburg is a vocal supporter of wind energy. He has described a "terrible" working relationship with Magrum.  District 28 Republicans last spring censured Brandenburg and Sen. Robert Erbele, R-Lehr, "in response to the dissatisfaction of many constituents of District 28." More North Dakota Republican lawmakers censured by district GOP GOVT-AND-POLITICS More North Dakota Republican lawmakers censured by district GOP JACK DURA The censures were among several of Republican lawmakers following the House expulsion of former Rep. Luke Simons, R-Dickinson, for workplace and sexual harassment. Magrum supported Simons. Both are aligned with the Legislature's ultraconservative Bastiat Caucus. District parties will hold conventions early next year to endorse candidates for the Legislature. Ninety-nine seats are up for election in 2022. More seats are on the ballot than usual due to redistricting. Republicans control the House of Representatives 80-14 and the Senate 40-7. Magrum Magrum PROVIDED Reach Jack Dura at 701-250-8225 or jack.dura@bismarcktribune.com. Tags Jeff Magrum Senate Politics Parliament Institutes Mike Brandenburg Seat House Of Representatives Ballot Bid Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox! Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. JACK DURA Capitol Reporter Most Popular North Dakota ethics measure group considers complaint about commission's transparency North Dakota ethics measure group considers complaint about commission's transparency North Dakota's Ethics Commission is taking public comments on draft conflict of interest rules, but no members were present Tuesday for a public hearing. Federal infrastructure bill's money could tangle with North Dakota spending panel's cap Federal infrastructure bill's money could tangle with North Dakota spending panel's cap North Dakota stands to receive at least $2 billion from the federal bipartisan infrastructure bill, but state officials so far have little information about it. Republican announces bid for retiring Democrat's Bismarck-area Senate seat Republican announces bid for retiring Democrat's Bismarck-area Senate seat Republican Sean Cleary is seeking the Bismarck-area District 35 Senate seat in 2022. North Dakota special session costs within budget at $301,000 North Dakota special session costs within budget at $301,000 The cost of North Dakota’s special five-day session last month is within the amount allotted, a legislative budget analyst said Thursday. North Dakota governor directs flags to half-staff in honor of Bob Dole North Dakota governor directs flags to half-staff in honor of Bob Dole Gov. Doug Burgum has directed government agencies to fly the U.S. and North Dakota flags at half-staff in honor and remembrance of former Sena… New leader named for North Dakota investment agency New leader named for North Dakota investment agency Jan Murtha will lead the state Retirement and Investment Office on a permanent basis as executive director. Bismarck Sen. Oban won't seek reelection, citing erosion of civility in politics Bismarck Sen. Oban won't seek reelection, citing erosion of civility in politics Sen. Erin Oban, D-Bismarck, will not seek a third term for the Bismarck-area District 35 Senate seat, citing the divisive nature of current politics. North Dakota ethics measure group unhappy with draft rules exempting campaign donations North Dakota ethics measure group unhappy with draft rules exempting campaign donations Leaders of the 2018 ballot measure that created North Dakota's Ethics Commission say the voter-approved panel's draft conflict of interest rules exempting campaign contributions would be unconstitutional. North Dakota lawmakers hope for greater civility after retiring senators decry divisiveness North Dakota lawmakers hope for greater civility after retiring senators decry divisiveness Some longtime state lawmakers and floor leaders acknowledge a drop in civility in the Legislature in recent years, something lamented by two retiring senators as a creeping national trend. Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Bismarck Tribune     Sites & Partners Best of the Best Dakota Classifieds Mandan News Jeans Day Online Features Services Circulation/Subscriptions e-Edition Work here Advertise Events Calendar Contact Us Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 