Skip to main content Back to homepage You have an ad blocker enabled Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​ Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Bismarck Tribune FEATURED Bismarck businesses slowly embrace solar power AMY R. SISK Dec 6, 2021 Updated 3 hrs ago  0 111621-nws-solar.jpg Spas Etc. owner Jerry Caufield points out electric inverters that were recently installed along with solar panels at his business on Main Avenue east of downtown Bismarck. Tom Stromme Facebook Twitter Email Print Save AMY R. SISK ABismarck business that sells hot tubs recently installed solar panels on its roof, making it one of a small but growing number of companies that have decided to “go solar” in a state that’s been slow to embrace this particular form of renewable energy. Jerry Caufield owns Spas Etc. on Main Avenue east of downtown Bismarck, where he also sells gazebos, billiards tables and other products. He said the decision to put solar panels on the building’s roof was twofold. “I did it mostly for financial reasons,” he said, adding that the panels also will reduce his business’s carbon footprint and “That’s a side benefit.” He expects the solar panels will reduce Spas Etc.’s monthly power bill, and that they will pay for themselves within 11 years. “In the summer when I’ve got the air conditioning and two or three hot tubs running, that’s when I’m really going to benefit,” he said. People are also reading… Postal Service moving ahead with Mandan post office relocation plans Williston man tried for allegedly running down neighbors, killing 1 Man arrested in Bismarck cop video incident faces new charges in Morton County Parshall woman enters plea agreement in infant's death After pipeline fight, Standing Rock communities look to the sun to power their future STATE & REGIONAL After pipeline fight, Standing Rock communities look to the sun to power their future AMY R. SISK The price of installing solar panels varies depending on the size of the project, but a typical system atop a house or small business costs tens of thousands of dollars. Solar panels are not a common sight in North Dakota, and the state tends to fall at the bottom of national rankings for solar energy build-out. But the solar industry is growing, particularly in Bismarck. Lightspring Spas Etc. Installation Workers with Bismarck-based Lightspring install solar panels atop Spas Etc. on Main Avenue east of downtown. PROVIDED, LIGHTSPRING Jim Kambeitz is co-founder of Lightspring, a Bismarck-based solar company that installed the panels atop Spas Etc. in October. Most of the company's inquiries about solar come from residents interested in putting panels on their roofs, but increasingly calls are coming in from businesses, too. Kambeitz was busy on a recent Saturday offering quotes to three companies. “The misconception is that it’s cold here so solar won’t work,” he said. “We have more sunlight hours on average per year than Florida. They’re cloudier. A solar farm in North Dakota will produce more kilowatt-hours per year here than Florida, even though it’s warmer there.” Excess electricity produced by the solar panels on top of Spas Etc. will be pumped back into the power grid. At times when the panels are not meeting the business’s usage, the building will draw power from the grid via Montana-Dakota Utilities. Students to study with solar panels at Career Academy BISMARCK Students to study with solar panels at Career Academy AMY R. SISK Some of the most visible solar arrays in Bismarck sit atop the garages of four apartment complexes operated by MetroPlains. Executive Vice President Craig Stenson said the company hired a Minnesota-based business to install the panels four years ago. Two of the installations are on complexes visible from busy State Street in north Bismarck. “I had a couple bankers and other real estate professionals call me to ask why I did it,” Stenson said. He has a background in engineering and wanted to help the planet. Federal tax incentives helped make the installations feasible, but he said there’s a disparity between North Dakota and Minnesota, where his company also operates. Minnesota has state-level incentives for solar. North Dakota does not. MetroPlains chose to install the panels at its Bismarck properties anyway. “A part of me wanted a little faster payback,” Stenson said. “But North Dakota has my heart. It’s where we started (the company).” So far in North Dakota, solar panels have been most popular among homeowners and businesses. The state has no major utility-scale solar farms, though regulators have permitted one project in Cass County. About a dozen solar farms proposed in North Dakota are sitting in the queues of the two transmission organizations that operate the power grid in the state, awaiting engineering studies. Wind farms have been a more popular option in North Dakota for utilities looking to add renewable power to their portfolios. But the wind industry and the federal tax credits that support it have faced backlash in recent years as some lawmakers and residents of North Dakota’s coal country see them as a threat. Who will use Coal Creek Station’s massive transmission line? GOVT-AND-POLITICS Who will use Coal Creek Station’s massive transmission line? AMY R. SISK The backlash has not extended to the same degree to solar, though McLean County last year enacted a moratorium on solar power amid the uncertainty surrounding the announced closure of Coal Creek Station, North Dakota’s largest coal-fired power plant. Solar companies had expressed interest in building projects that would connect to the plant’s transmission line. The facility has since found a new owner who hopes to keep the plant running and add wind farms to hook up to the power line. Tribal communities have been some of the biggest adopters of solar in the state. Lightspring has worked with former oil workers on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation to install solar, and it has partnered with United Tribes Technical College. The biggest solar installation in the state is on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, where several rows of solar panels in a field near Cannon Ball have a 300-kilowatt capacity -- enough electricity to power about 60 homes in summer, according to an estimate from operator Indigenized Energy. Some of the utility-scale solar farms proposed for the state would have a capacity more than 600 times that size. Lightspring is not involved in the bigger utility-scale proposals, though it aspires to work on larger projects. Kambeitz envisions a future with large solar projects around the state -- not massive utility-scale ones, but ones built by North Dakotans that can benefit small communities. “We need to create companies that get as many North Dakotans as possible involved in the future energy economy here so we don’t miss out,” he said. Reach Amy R. Sisk at 701-250-8252 or amy.sisk@bismarcktribune.com. 1 1 Be the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. AMY R. SISK Energy Reporter Author twitter Author email Most Popular Bismarck woman revived with Narcan at busy intersection gets year in prison Bismarck woman revived with Narcan at busy intersection gets year in prison A Bismarck driver whom police revived with a drug overdose medication when she passed out at a busy intersection has been sentenced to a year … Mandan man faces drug charge Mandan man faces drug charge Authorities have arrested a Mandan man they say had 68 fentanyl pills in his car and told them he’d sold thousands of pills in recent months. Man arrested in Bismarck cop video incident faces new charges in Morton County Man arrested in Bismarck cop video incident faces new charges in Morton County A Mandan man whose August arrest was captured on video and led to the reprimand of a Bismarck police officer is now accused of preventing arrest and escape in two Morton County cases. Arrest made in Keelboat Park shooting tied to gang activity Arrest made in Keelboat Park shooting tied to gang activity A man whose car was struck by a number of bullets at Keelboat Park told Bismarck police the shooter or shooters tried to kill him in retaliati… Woman accused of using in-laws' bank account for down payment on house Woman accused of using in-laws' bank account for down payment on house Burleigh County authorities have issued an arrest warrant for a woman they say used her mother- and father-in-law’s Bismarck bank account to make a $134,000 down payment on a house in Montana. Bismarck man sentenced to 3 years on gun, drug charges Bismarck man sentenced to 3 years on gun, drug charges A Bismarck man with a history of drug and weapon convictions has been sentenced to three years in prison after pleading guilty to possessing m… Detroit man pleads not guilty to drug charge in Bismarck Detroit man pleads not guilty to drug charge in Bismarck A Detroit man who police say brought 3,000 opiate pills to Bismarck in three trips has pleaded not guilty to a drug conspiracy charge. Bismarck woman charged after children left alone more than a day without food Bismarck woman charged after children left alone more than a day without food A Bismarck woman accused of leaving her two small children alone and without food for more than 24 hours while she was in jail has been charge… Downed power lines cause street closure, power outages Downed power lines cause street closure, power outages South 12th Street between Indiana and Arbor avenues in Bismarck was closed for several hours Saturday due to downed power lines, and numerous … Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Bismarck Tribune     Sites & Partners Best of the Best Dakota Classifieds Mandan News Jeans Day Online Features Services Circulation/Subscriptions e-Edition Work here Advertise Events Calendar Contact Us Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 The Bismarck Tribune, 707 E. Front Ave Bismarck,ND | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 