Skip to main content site-logo TOP STORY Carrington FFA team places third at National FFA Convention Sue Roesler Dec 3, 2021  Carrington FFA Carrington agronomy team had a gold placing, coming in third in the nation at the National FFA Convention. Trapper Depew, Jacob Rexin, Elizabeth Lee and Joe Lindberg.  Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Sue Roesler The Carrington FFA team earned top honors during the National FFA Convention, held Oct. 25-30 in Indianapolis, Ind. FFA members Trapper Depew, Elizabeth Lee, Joe Lindberg and Jacob Rexin formed the Agronomy team, together placing third in the nation in Agronomy Career Development.  Depew was the first place individual, earning a $1,000 scholarship, while Lee, Lindberg, and Rexin all earned a gold award. “The team was excited to place as high as they did,” said Missy Hansen, Carrington FFA advisor and teacher. “Trapper finishing as the first place individual is an incredible accomplishment. Placing in the top 10 in any event at the national level takes a lot of time studying and practicing, so the students were very proud of their results.” The team is coached by Bruce Bachmeier, a local agronomist, and Joel Lemer, a retired ag education teacher and Extension agent. “Their expertise in helping the team prepare for the event was essential to the students doing so well,” Hansen said.    Hansen pointed out the contest was held differently than it has been in the past. The students completed the written test, crop and weed identification, insect identification, agronomic disorders, grain grading and the soils evaluation virtually at the end of August. The top 50 percent of the teams were invited to compete in-person at the National FFA Convention at the end of October.  Carrington was one of those teams. The in-person events included a presentation on current agronomic issues, evaluating hay and green pepper samples, and a complex team problem and presentation.   “Our team started practicing at the beginning of August. Many of our practices were held virtually as two of our team members were in college,” she said. “North Dakota FFA had amazing success at the 94th National FFA Convention and Expo,” said Nikki Fideldy-Doll, the new North Dakota FFA state advisor. “FFA Advisors should be commended on their leadership and guidance of these students. Not only are they providing them the opportunity to compete on a national level, but they are showing students future careers in the agricultural industry.” Fideldy-Doll said North Dakota FFA teams won eight golds, five silvers, and one bronze at the convention. In individual awards, North Dakota won 38 golds, 41 silvers, and 27 bronze awards.   Tags Ffa Indianapolis Nikki Fideldy-doll Carrington Missy Hansen North Dakota National Ffa Convention Carrington Ffa Team Missy Hansen, Carrington Ffa Advisor And Teacher Bruce Bachmeier, A Local Agronomist Joel Lemer, A Retired Ag Education Teacher And Extension Agent. Farm & Ranch Guide Weekly Update Get the latest agriculture news delivered to your inbox from Farm & Ranch Guide. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Sue Roesler Sue Roesler Reporter Author email Most Popular  +2Wet corn mill a potential new market for corn growers STATE & REGIONAL Wet corn mill a potential new market for corn growers Updated Dec 4, 2021 GRAND FORKS, N.D. – Northeastern North Dakota corn growers could have a new market for their crop with the announcement that a wet corn mill w…  +2Rugby team takes home national championship at National FFA Convention STATE & REGIONAL Rugby team takes home national championship at National FFA Convention Updated Dec 4, 2021 It was a big day for three Rugby FFA members who were escorted into town after being crowned 2021 National Champions in Ag Technology and Mech…  +2Family Roots Farm raises produce, meats in southeastern ND STATE & REGIONAL Family Roots Farm raises produce, meats in southeastern ND Updated Nov 29, 2021 CHRISTINE, N.D. – Jen Skoog, who owns Family Roots Farm in the southeastern region of the state, started a farm to be able to raise locally gr… Northern Ag Expo features numerous informative ag seminars STATE & REGIONAL Northern Ag Expo features numerous informative ag seminars Updated Nov 29, 2021 The 2021 Northern Ag Expo, which will be held at the FargoDome on Nov. 30-Dec. 1, will feature a number of informative seminars. Topics to be … Two Velva FFA members place second overall in Agriscience STATE & REGIONAL Two Velva FFA members place second overall in Agriscience Dec 3, 2021 At the National FFA Convention, two Velva FFA members, Rose Schiele and Faith Howe, placed second overall in the Agriscience Fair Project. Energy crisis globally affecting agriculture STATE & REGIONAL Energy crisis globally affecting agriculture Updated Nov 22, 2021 Ag and energy are closely entwined and the energy crisis across the globe has been impacting U.S. agriculture this year. Veteran Craig Vaughn enjoys farming/ranching in northeastern ND STATE & REGIONAL Veteran Craig Vaughn enjoys farming/ranching in northeastern ND Updated Nov 12, 2021 CAVALIER, N.D. – Fifth-generation farmer and military veteran Sgt. Craig Vaughn was out removing cornstalks in one of his corn fields on Oct. …  Marketplace Find the equipment you're looking for Search... Tractors Combines Harvesters Planting Misc Equipment Hay Equipment Trailers Trucks Livestock Seed Feed/Hay site-logo    Search Contact Us Work For Us Publications Agri-View Cattle Seller Farm & Ranch Guide Farm & Ranch Network Illinois Farmer Today Iowa Farmer Today Livestock Roundup Midwest Marketer Midwest Messenger Minnesota Farm Guide Missouri Farmer Today The Prairie Star Midwest Messenger Kansas Tri-State Neighbor Marketplace Tractors Combines Harvesters Planting Hay Equipment Trucks & Trailers Livestock Seed, Feed, & Hay © Copyright 2021 AgUpdate, 707 S 13th Street Tekamah, NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 