 articles   sign in home BREAKING NEWS news sports opinion obituaries legals weather online features community events blogs announcement my content my profiles my classifieds my events my blogs my buddies classifieds jobs cars real estate apartments services ... more post a classified businesses restaurants shopping sports & rec. real estate ... more publication about us contact us subscribe to print edition subscribe to online edition advertise with us Mock Crash Shows Kids Reality of Distracted Driving 4 years ago | 66990 views | 0 0 comments | 2841 2841 recommendations | email to a friend | print The scenario begins with an audio presentation of kids driving distractedly and ultimately getting into a accident. The scenario begins with an audio presentation of kids driving distractedly and ultimately getting into a accident. Officers check the victims of the crash to ascertain the seriousness of the injuries. Officers check the victims of the crash to ascertain the seriousness of the injuries. Officers check the victims of the crash to ascertain the seriousness of the injuries. Officers check the victims of the crash to ascertain the seriousness of the injuries. After determining there was a “fatality,” extrication personnel work to free the survivors. After determining there was a “fatality,” extrication personnel work to free the survivors. The driver, who was shown to be driving distractedly, is arrested and sent to jail. The driver, who was shown to be driving distractedly, is arrested and sent to jail. Friends of the young man who killed by the distracted driver act as pallbearers in a funeral where the young man’s father speaks to the attendees, saying, “No parent should have to go through this. No text, or phone call is worth someone’s life.” Friends of the young man who killed by the distracted driver act as pallbearers in a funeral where the young man’s father speaks to the attendees, saying, “No parent should have to go through this. No text, or phone call is worth someone’s life.” A mock crash scenario was held at Wasatch High School Friday to help students understand the dangers of distracted driving. Students were able to watch a mock crash unfold, and see what happens following an incident where one student dies as a result of distracted driving. The event was cosponsored by Wasatch County Sheriffs Office, Heber City Police Department, Utah Highway Patrol, Wasatch County Fire and EMS, Heber Valley Funeral Home and the Wasatch County Health Department. Share This Article| Comments(0)Comments-icon Post a Comment No Comments Yet Help Contact Us Software Copyright © 2021 Sole Solution. Content Copyright © 2021 The Wasatch Wave. Business listing data provided in part by Localeze. This software is in a public beta. read our privacy policy The Wasatch Wave - News, Classifieds, Events and Businesses in Wasatch County, Utah is in Heber City, UT Read more: The Wasatch Wave - Mock Crash Shows Kids Reality of Distracted Driving