 Menu PC RECORD TIMES SUBSCRIBE LOGIN MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021  Subscribe Already a subscriber? LOGIN » Remembering the Wheatland Christmas parade with the pictures  Guernsey’s Magilla Hort was amazed as the lights went on and she got a chance to talk with Santa Claus. She was content to listen to the soothing Holiday music played by Justin Herdt’s DJ Magik. Herdt was there all day playing music for small business Saturday that preceded the parade. According to Herdt, “We were just excited to have that many floats, and the people, it seemed like less, but with going to the library everyone was more spread out. We were thankful the wind wasn't blowing though. We realize that on Thanksgiving Day weekend we miss some people, but we do have the people visiting that show up to the parade too, and they love it.” By: Mark DeLap - Updated: 5 days ago Posted Dec 1, 2021    Wyoming’s High School Rodeo queen who is a senior at Wheatland High School was the parade’s flag bearer and she had her famous paint decorated and lit up with Christmas lights. Just when you thought it was all Christmas cheer, the Grinch came out of nowhere riding on a very large motorcycle. He did let his kids throw candy to the kids though. The newly elected PCHA queen Kaylee Rasnake waved to the crowd as she has one more month before beginning her reign of royalty. One of the most innovative floats in the parade was a large cement mixer that had been wrapped like a Christmas present and driven by Erin Hale. She had her sister, Autumn Read ride the front bumper and throw out candy.   The Wheatland parade and most of the town headed down to the library where all the commercial lawn ornaments were lit for the holiday season. According to one of the parade organizers Ruth Herdt, “Third place was Donnie Parkin and family on his 1976 Corvair Trike. Second place was Hoffman Custom Construction with "Santa's Sleigh.” First place was Michelle Hernandez and family with a truck load of fun and love. We had 14 beautiful entries.”  Guernsey’s Magilla Hort was amazed as the lights went on and she got a chance to talk with Santa Claus. She was content to listen to the soothing Holiday music played by Justin Herdt’s DJ Magik. Herdt was there all day playing music for small business Saturday that preceded the parade. According to Herdt, “We were just excited to have that many floats, and the people, it seemed like less, but with going to the library everyone was more spread out. We were thankful the wind wasn't blowing though. We realize that on Thanksgiving Day weekend we miss some people, but we do have the people visiting that show up to the parade too, and they love it.” TRENDING RECIPE VIDEOS MORE IN HOME  Salsa Contest and Concert perfect ending for Green Harvest Festival   Western Coffee to honor National Coffee Day   A true story so you will never forget   Hohnholt charged with theft in circuit court PC RECORD TIMES 1007 8th Street Wheatland WY 82201 307-322-2627 • 307-322-9612 Follow Us MAIN MENU Home Religion Sports Obituaries Legal Notices County Community Records Featured Events Wyoming News Employment Opportunities Classifieds QUICK LINKS Contact Subscribe Support Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Login Search Site Search © 2021 News Media Corporation. All Rights Reserved 