 Menu PC RECORD TIMES SUBSCRIBE LOGIN MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021  Subscribe Already a subscriber? LOGIN » Santa makes a special trip to Wyoming, boards his reindeer at the quarter horse motel  From the very young to the very old, people from Wyoming and from all over the nation came to eat BBQ, shop the Christmas Bazaar and sit on Santa’s lap. And of course, Mrs. Claus had the pleasure of the babies. By: Mark DeLap - Updated: 5 days ago Posted Dec 1, 2021    San1: Lori Copsey Morales and her husband, Shane brought kids from Guernsey to have a talk with Santa. Kids from left to right: Skiler Freouf, Donna Miller and Hunter Miller. San2: John Krieschel from Guernsey posing for pictures with Santa before he got down to business to express his holiday wishes. San3: Ivan and Ike Brockman from Wheatland are totally happy to be hanging out with the Claus Clan. San4: I saw mommy kissing Santa Clause.  The Claus family was played by Mike and Sue Fronapfel. San5: Holly Allison, Platte County Realtor, Quinn Bruegman future cowboy and dad, Colt Bruegman all pose for a picture with Santa and the Mrs. San6: Jalea Brockman, Ivan Brockman, Ike Brockman and Maureen Manning all take time out from the Christmas Bizaar to have their pictures taken with Santa Claus and Mrs. Claus. San7: Elise Meier waits her turn to sit on Santa’s lap. Rumors have it that she wanted a real horse this year. San8: From the very young to the very old, people from Wyoming and from all over the nation came to eat BBQ, shop the Christmas Bazaar and sit on Santa’s lap. And of course, Mrs. Claus had the pleasure of the babies. San9: Jill Graves and WHS junior Jedea Graves proved you are never too old to come and sit on Santa’s lap and share your wishes for a Merry Christmas. San9b: Elise Meier got a chance to say “cheese” as cameras were out in droves at the Christmas Bazaar at Rafter MB.  From the very young to the very old, people from Wyoming and from all over the nation came to eat BBQ, shop the Christmas Bazaar and sit on Santa’s lap. And of course, Mrs. Claus had the pleasure of the babies. TRENDING RECIPE VIDEOS MORE IN HOME  Laramie Peak VFW Auxiliary announces upcoming events   Veteran’s assistance in Laramie, Platte and Goshen counties   Western Coffee to honor National Coffee Day   Salsa Contest and Concert perfect ending for Green Harvest Festival PC RECORD TIMES 1007 8th Street Wheatland WY 82201 307-322-2627 • 307-322-9612 Follow Us MAIN MENU Home Religion Sports Obituaries Legal Notices County Community Records Featured Events Wyoming News Employment Opportunities Classifieds QUICK LINKS Contact Subscribe Support Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Login Search Site Search © 2021 News Media Corporation. All Rights Reserved 