Rainbow Wāhine volleyball knocks off No. 23 Mississippi State in NCAA First Round
Hawai‘i advances to second round with five-set win over Bulldogs
Reece Nagaoka, Sports Editor Dec 3, 2021 Updated Dec 4, 2021 Comments
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Amber Igiede vs. UC San Diego (1).jpg
Diego Rivera
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
The first meeting between the University of Hawai‘i women’s volleyball team and Mississippi State did not disappoint, as the Rainbow Wāhine advanced to the second round of the NCAA Tournament on Friday after beating the No. 23 Bulldogs in five sets. Scores for the match at the Alaska Airlines Arena at Hec Edmundson Pavilion were 17-25, 25-14, 25-13, 21-25 and 15-11 for Hawai‘i.

Amber Igiede had a team-high 18 kills and five blocks, one of three Rainbow Wāhine with double-digit kills. The other two, Brooke Van Sickle and Skyler Williams, had 16 and 12 respectively with Van Sickle also recording 14 digs for a double-double.

Hawai‘i struggled early in the first set, falling out of system and relying on two passes to set up the attack. Trailing by as many as 10, the Rainbow Wāhine made a run behind their four blocks in the set, but the deficit was too big and Mississippi State claimed the first set.

Hawai‘i bounced back in the second set, using the momentum they had generated in the back half of the first set to drop 15 kills on .520 hitting. Unforced errors by Mississippi State also helped the Rainbow Wāhine in the set, as four attack errors and three service errors provided Hawai‘i points in the set win.

Seven blocks by the Rainbow Wāhine fueled another dominant set for them in set three, as they held Mississippi State to just eight kills on a .000 hitting percentage. In addition to their strong defensive play, the Rainbow Wāhine also hit .417 in the set behind Igiede’s six kills.

Mississippi State bought itself some momentum early in the fourth set, leading 8-5. The Bulldogs had set point at 24-17, and although Hawai‘i bought itself some time by staving off four set points, Mississippi State finally closed the deal and forced a winner-take-all fifth set.

In the critical fifth set, the two teams went back-and-forth before Hawai‘i went on a 3-0 that put them up at the media timeout. From there, the Rainbow Wāhine maintained the pace behind Igiede’s six kills, capped off with Martyna Leoniak’s 4th kill to clinch the set and match.

For Mississippi State, Gabby Waden led the team with 20 kills. Lauren Myrick was the only other Bulldog with double-digit kills with 10, as Mississippi State finished the match with a .190 hitting percentage.

Hawai‘i will play the winner of the other first round match, Brown or Washington at 5 p.m. HST tomorrow. It will be streamed on ESPN+ with ESPN Honolulu providing radio coverage.