Theresa Ann Christofferson Nov 23, 2021  0 Facebook Twitter Email Card of Thanks Death Notices Submit An Obituary Funeral homes often submit obituaries as a service to the families they are assisting. However, we will be happy to accept obituaries from family members pending proper verification of the death. Theresa Ann Christofferson.jpg Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Theresa Ann Christofferson, age 69, of Albia, IA, passed away on Thursday, November 18, 2021, at MercyOne West Des Moines Medical Center. Theresa was born on July 6, 1952, at Mercy Hospital in Iowa City, IA, to Earl “Gene” and Joyce (Moore) Gray. She grew up attending school in Tipton, IA, and graduated from the Tipton High School with the Class of 1970. Theresa worked at Gambles/True Value before she went to work for the Albia Newspaper office where she was the receptionist for many years. While working at the newspaper office, she also worked at the Barbary Coast Theatre in Albia. Theresa was a talented seamstress and was a member of the Albia Crazy Quilters Guild. She enjoyed going to garage sales and baking and was known for her coffee cakes which she loved to share with others. She was one of the founding members for Cruizin’ Albia and always helped with the different vendors for the event. Theresa enjoyed the holidays and cherished the time she spent with her family and friends, especially her grandchildren. Theresa is survived by 3 children, Angela (Lance) Wilson of Oskaloosa, Andrea (Craig Gutcher) Long of Albia, and Andy (Molly) Mullen of Mystic; 9 grandchildren, Bleyke Mullen, Rylee Wilson, Xavier Long, Drake Long, Karston Wikel, Patience Leonard, Aiden Leonard, Callen Mullen, and Freya Mullen; a grandchild and a great-granchild on the way; 3 siblings, Sharon (Larry) Hodgden, Patti (Mike) See, and Lisa Gray; and an aunt, Joan Gibson. Theresa is also survived by many nieces, nephews, cousins and good friends. Theresa was preceded in death by her parents, Gene and Joyce Gray. Visitation will be held from 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. on Saturday, November 27, 2021, at the Tharp Funeral Home in Albia, with Theresa’s family present to greet family and friends. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday, November 27, 2021, at the Tharp Funeral Home in Albia, with Pastor Roger Henry and Pastor Richard Grimes co-officiating. A private family burial will be held at a later date. An open memorial has been established to the family. Condolences and memories to the family may be left online at www.tharpfh.com.