Steps from the East Village, this downtown Des Moines townhome has luxury at every turn Paula ReeceSpecial to the Register 129 E. Center St., Des Moines Enjoy downtown Des Moines living, just steps from the East Village, in this townhome with so many perks in The Banks @ Bridge District. Be the only home at The Banks that opens to the neighborhood park with direct views of the Des Moines River.  Set back from surrounding roads, allowing for a peaceful contrast to the downtown hubbub, the luxury home features a garden entry into an open living space with brick interior accents. The living room boasts a brick electric fireplace. Throughout the home you’ll find engineered hardwood floors. The kitchen offers plenty of counter and storage space while maintaining a clean look with stainless steel appliances and white cabinetry.  Admire the custom-made handrails as you head upstairs, where you’ll find the owner’s ensuite with over 10-foot ceilings, a deep closet, double sinks and a luxury shower with two body sprays. The ceiling tile was repurposed from a ceiling in the People’s National Bank in Pella, which is on the National Historic Register. A convenient laundry room is also located on the second floor, as well as two other bedrooms and another full bathroom. More:This contemporary oasis features a private pond, saltwater pool — and a bridge over a moat Additional perks include heated floors in the bathrooms, a 4-season flex room on the roof with a wet bar, a coffee bar and an oversized 2.5-car garage. The roof is ready for entertaining or just relaxing and enjoying the view. This property is the only one listed in the neighborhood structurally ready for a future hot tub on the roof. It also offers a private area with a pergola as well as an entertaining zone with a deck that extends all the way to the edge of the roof and provides an unobstructed view of downtown and the Capitol.  You couldn’t ask for a more exciting neighborhood to live in, with the recent renovation to the Robert D. Ray Asian Garden with stone pagoda, pond and waterfall, new Lauridsen Skatepark and Woman of Achievement Bridge on the Des Moines River, which is the future site of a kayaking water trail and rapids. More:South of Grand property is historic and updated Homeowners Association dues are $220 and cover all snow removal, lawn care, landscaping, exterior building insurance, the park and the private street. Take advantage of the tax abatement. The home is currently listed at $668,000. Call Darla Willett-Rohrssen with Iowa Realty at (515) 203-6108 to schedule a private showing. If this property is sold, Willett-Rohrssen will be able to help you locate similar properties.