Hutchinson/Reno County Chamber of Commerce names Toy Depot as Small Business of the Month Olivia Perkins The Hutchinson News Toy Depot co-owner Mark Buckley stands behind the antique front desk where customers purchase vintage toys, board games, marbles and more from Hutchinson/Reno County Chamber of Commerce's November Small Business of the Month on Dec. 1, 2021, in Hutchinson. The Hutchinson/Reno County Chamber of Commerce recognized Toy Depot as November's Small Business of the Month, acknowledging their commitment to community involvement and employee retention. Mark Buckley and Geneva Nisly, co-owners of Toy Depot, which first opened in 2011, sell vintage toys like Fisher-Price antiques, Lionel Trains, dolls, Hotwheels and more. Buckley said his favorite aspect of the store is him seeing the customers who walk through his antique door. By focusing on creating an inviting and fun space, he said, his customers normally walk out of his shop happier than when they walked in. "I want people to come in and look at the store go 'wow, I'm having a great time,' and I see almost every customer smile," Buckley said. A passion for toys Buckley and Nisly purchased 127 South Main St. in the fall of 2010, and by 2011 the vintage store opened downtown, beginning the only store that exclusively sells vintage toys in a city with a population under 3 million. Buckley said they are one of 14 vintage toy stores in the world, but most other shops reside in larger cities like Chicago, Paris and New York. Buckley and Nisly began the Toy Depot out of their passion for toys, with Buckley collecting Lionel Trains and other vintage toys for more than 60 years. Toy Depot includes Tonka Trucks, vintage Fisher Price, Ertl Tractors, marbles and dolls for collectors and casual customers. One of its more popular items is Hotwheels and other toy vehicles. More:Ingite! Business Expo displays over 100 different Reno County industries Toy Depot sales associate Joe Jackson shows off the dolls that are on sale for $10 at 127 S. Main St. in downtown Hutchinson. Success through staff and customer service The shop exceeded its predicted sales this year, causing Toy Depot to have a record year before the holiday season began. Buckley said the most significant attribution to the store's success is the staff. "What makes it work is I have excellent employees and always have," Buckley said. Buckley said most of his employees have worked at Toy Depot from day one, many of them choosing to spend their retirement working for the store. Buckley and Nisly stated they stay involved in the community for their love of the downtown area, sweeping the street gutter and sidewalk monthly and providing flags for the flagpoles on the 100 block of South Main Street. More:The Hutch/Reno County Chamber named Hutch Putt its small business of the month Staying active in the community Buckley said they also stay active with the Hutchinson/Reno County Chamber of Commerce by visiting their events and encouraging other small businesses to do the same. "We're always active and go to After Hours and usually to the breakfast every month," Buckley said. "I tell people if you're going to join, be active; don't put your money in and do nothing." Toy Depot is open in November and December from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and throughout the rest of the year, they open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Thursday through Saturday. 