The Prairie Nutcracker's 12th season: fresh performances and returning cast members Olivia Perkins The Hutchinson News Molly Williamson and Eliza Williamson, 9, rehearse as the Prairie Doll and Little Laura during the Snowflakes act for the Prairie Nutcracker on Saturday, Dec. 4 at ArtisTree in Hutchinson. A little more than two decades ago, ArtisTree co-director Betsie Andrews had the idea to perform a traditional Nutcracker ballet with a Kansas twist. Instead of a quiet score of violins opening the show, whistling winds set the stage of the prairie for the audience, paying homage to the sounds of the prairie. ArtisTree changed a traditional Nutcracker ballet into a Great Plains story about a young girl learning Midwestern life by adding an original score by Rick Kuethe and transforming the usual dances into scenes of prairie life.  The Prairie Nutcracker, created by Andrews in 2000, tells the story of Little Laura navigating through the move to the Great Plains in 1869, featuring familiar faces like the Balladeer Cowboy and Prairie Doll aiding Laura through her journey. "I think people should come to see our performance because it embodies the spirit of Kansas, and when they come, they feel part of the show," Sarah Snider, co-director at ArtisTree, said. "It's about love and joy and magic that the audience gets to experience, and then walk away feeling like they saw something authentic." The Prairie Nutcracker The Prairie Nutcracker premiers at the Fox Theater on Friday, Dec. 10, continuing through Sunday for a matinee performance during the afternoon. The choreography, music and visuals will remain mostly the same for the holiday season, but the performers do something different each year, Andrews said, creating a fresh take on an established tradition. Instead of a traditional Nutcracker show, acts like the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairies and the Spanish Waltz are replaced with the Prairie Ball and Prairie Flames to create a unique Great Plains story many Kansans recognize. There are also logger boys and soldiers.  Rhiannon Bieyra, performs during the Indians scene with Kamryn Keast, 17, left, Fath Zongker, 17, right, and two other performers Charis Mourn, 15 and Acacia Clobis, 17, for the Prairie Nutcracker's rehearsal on Saturday, Dec. 4, at ArtisTree in Hutchinson. Continuing traditions More than 60 performers from age 6 to more than 50 work together to create this Hutchinson classic.   Some of the cast have performed in the Prairie Nutcracker for nearly the entirety of the show's seasons. Ray Nicodemus, the Balladeer Cowboy, first joined the show in 2003. "It's not a Nutcracker in the traditional sense, it's just unique, and we made it unique," Nicodemus said. Much of the cast have performed in the Prairie Nutcracker since a young age. Charles Miller, 16, who began in the children's ensemble when he was seven, acts as the Snow King this season. He also performs in multiple productions in south-central Kansas. "There's just a community around this dance studio, a lot of people come back year after year, and so we just have a really tight bond," Miller said. " it's almost like a little family." More:Reno County Museum plans second Christmas in the Courtyard to give back to the community Charles Miller, 16, leaps during a rehearsal for the Prairie Nutcracker's Snowflake act  on Saturday, Dec. 4, at ArtisTree in Hutchinson. Families in ballet Many at ArtisTree create a tight-knit community. Miller's sisters began dancing before him, Molly Williamson dances with her sister, Sarah Snider, and several of her children. This year, the Prairie Doll and Little Laura are a mother-daughter duo, adding more to an already emotional performance. Molly as the Prairie Doll and Eliza, 9, as Little Laura created a fresh take by using a familial touch on the established roles. Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account "It's a hidden beauty in Hutchinson, and not very many people know about or realize the sweetness of the story," Molly Williamson said. The Prairie Nutcracker opens at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, Dec. 10, at Hutchinson's Historic Fox Theater, continuing on Saturday at the same time and finishing with an afternoon matinee at 3 p.m., Sunday, Dec. 12. Tickets are available for purchase at the box office or online, beginning at $18 for children, ages 4 to 12 and $28 for adults. Group pricing is available at the Fox Theater box office. More:Live Christmas trees in Kansas could cost you more — if you chose an imported tree