Project instills work ethic, appreciation for military For the few area high school students who participate in Operation Leaf Relief each year, the event is about much more than raking leaves. by Gerry Tritz Dec. 5 2021 @ 11:05pm story.lead_photo.caption Gerry Tritz/News Tribune From left, Blair Oaks High School students Avery Schoenenberg, Sierra Durr and Aidan Bolinger were among eight area high school students participating in Operation Leaf Relief Sunday. For the few area high school students who participate in Operation Leaf Relief each year, the event is about much more than raking leaves. It's about developing a work ethic while showing appreciation for our military. This year, the event ended with the same yard it has since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. It's been a longstanding tradition for the project, which benefits Operation Bugle Boy, to finish at the Jefferson City home of Mary Lou Scott, 921 Winston Drive. Scott's late husband, Peter Wilks Scott, was a veteran, and Scott has supported the fundraiser since its inception. This year was bittersweet, as it was the last year they'll be finishing Operation Leaf Relief at Scott's home, which she is selling. Scott said her husband would be proud to see the youths working but also to see their patriotism and support of the military. "The kids are so dedicated, and it goes for a good cause," she said, adding the project — and supporting the military in general — "are one of the most worthwhile things we can do." Chris Jarboe coordinates the event and is president of Operation Bugle Boy, the beneficiary of the event. He said the money the group received for raking yards will go toward OBB events next year, particularly events to honor World War II veterans. "If a student does Operation Bugle Boy, you can bet they're going to be wonderful citizens and very successful with whatever they choose to do," Jarboe said. One of the student volunteers was Aidan Bolinger, of Blair Oaks High School. His father works for the Sheriff's Department, and his grandfather and uncle served in the military. "I just like to do my part and raise awareness for first responders and veterans and help in any way I can," he said. "I appreciate everything they do. They sacrifice a lot. What we do isn't anything special, but it's helping." Denise Crider, a language arts instructor at Russellville High School, was raking leaves alongside her students Sunday. She helps out with Operation Leaf Relief "because of the opportunity it gives students to stay involved in a hands-on way." "I realize how fortunate we are to be where we are because someone sacrificed for us, or is sacrificing for us," she said.