Skip to main content Back to homepage Please subscribe to keep reading. Enjoy unlimited articles at one of our lowest prices ever. You can cancel at any time. Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on beatricedailysun.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Beatrice Daily Sun AP TOP STORY Study looks at psychology of gun buying in 2020 TOM AVRIL The Philadelphia Inquirer Dec 6, 2021 Updated 2 hrs ago  0 Photo 1 Lisa Caso sells guns at Caso's Gun-A-Rama store on March 25 in Jersey City, N.J. Caso's Gun-A-Rama has had a significant increase in business with lines often out the door.  SPENCER PLATT, GETTY IMAGES Facebook Twitter Email Print Save TOM AVRIL The Philadelphia Inquirer Arule of thumb in the firearm industry is that when Democrats are in office, gun owners buy more guns because they're worried that politicians will "take their guns away." But as with so much else in 2020, the last year of President Trump's tenure, that rule did not seem to apply. The total number of guns purchased each year in the U.S. is hard to come by. But the number of FBI background checks, which represents a substantial portion of efforts to acquire firearms, reached a record 39.7 million in 2020 — a 40% jump from the year before. The surge began during the early months of COVID-19, and it picked up steam in the summer following the murder of George Floyd and its consequences. In a new study exploring the psychology behind these purchases, Rutgers University researchers found that when compared to other gun owners, those who purchased firearms in 2020 seemed more sensitive to perceived threats and had less control over their emotions and impulses. "What we're showing is that these people who are purchasing firearms during the 2020 surge are different from typical firearm owners," said Taylor R. Rodriguez, one of the study authors. "There's something unique about this group of people." People are also reading… Orangemen pull away from Nebraska City late Plea agreement reached in murder case Steven M. Sipple: Cam Jurgens, key cog in Frost offense, strongly considering jump to NFL Beatrice senior citizen gift program back for 6th year The findings come amid a renewed debate over gun safety, sparked by record rates of homicides in Philadelphia and other cities in 2021, the Kyle Rittenhouse trial, and other high-profile cases. Published in the journal Social Science & Medicine, the study was based on a survey of 3,500 U.S. adults, selected to correspond with demographic characteristics from the 2010 census. Participants included gun owners who said they purchased a firearm in 2020, those who did not, and non-gun owners. When asked a series of questions designed to measure sensitivity to threats, gun owners who did not purchase a new firearm in 2020 scored the lowest of the three groups. Those who did purchase firearms in 2020 were more wary of threats, scoring about the same as non-gun owners. In a second series of questions designed to measure "disinhibition," those who purchased a firearm in 2020 scored far higher than either of the other two groups, meaning they had lower impulse control. The mindset that prompts people to buy firearms has received little study, so the new findings represent a valuable contribution to the field, said Nick Buttrick, a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University's School of Public and International Affairs. Buttrick, who was not involved with the Rutgers study but has studied the topic, said more work is needed to sort out cause and effect in the psychology of the 2020 purchasing surge. Were those people prompted to buy guns because of how they view the world? Or did the purchase itself alter their mindset in some way? "We aren't sure whether they were that way beforehand, or whether having bought a gun, it's sort of sensitizing them to be more aware of threats," he said. Likewise, prior research has found that owning a firearm is associated with more willingness to take risks. But that doesn't necessarily mean one factor causes the other. Men in general have a higher tolerance for risk. Other studies suggest there are two primary motivations behind firearm purchases — sport shooting and hunting, and the belief that the weapon is needed for self-protection, Buttrick said. There can be overlap between the two, but it is likely that those who purchased firearms in 2020 fell more into the "protection" category, he said. Rodriguez agreed that more research was needed, calling the study a first step. She said she and her co-authors, who work at the New Jersey Gun Violence Research Center, undertook the study in part to guide violence-prevention messaging. "If you can tailor it to the specific group you're working with — what's important to them, what's driving them to this behavior — then you can know what to target," she said. "You can know how to talk to them." With gun purchases still brisk in 2021, the researchers may now have to broaden their scope. By the end of October, the FBI had recorded 33 million background checks, already higher than any year before — except for 2020. Locations Lee Be the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Most Popular Roe v. Wade could fall after 1992 scare Roe v. Wade could fall after 1992 scare WASHINGTON — We've been here before, with the fate of abortion rights throughout the United States in doubt and awaiting a decision by the Supreme Court. Suicide of bullied Utah girl draws anger Suicide of bullied Utah girl draws anger DRAPER, Utah — When her 10-year-old daughter tried spraying air freshener on herself before school one morning, Brittany Tichenor-Cox suspected something was wrong with the sweet little girl whose beaming smile had gone dormant after she started the fifth grade. Loyalty to family over CNN puts Cuomo at risk Loyalty to family over CNN puts Cuomo at risk NEW YORK — There's family, and your job as a journalist. Chris Cuomo's willingness to put the latter at risk in service to his brother has led to his suspension by CNN. Supply chain problems hit kids' charities Supply chain problems hit kids' charities With less than four weeks to go until Christmas, Kristyn Begari has been rushing to find enough doll styling heads to give to kids in need. Holiday shoppers navigate shortages Holiday shoppers navigate shortages NEW YORK — Like many shoppers, Kathleen Webber understands the struggles of getting the right gifts for her three children this holiday shopping season amid widespread shortages. WWII Museum show to feature stories of sacrifice WWII Museum show to feature stories of sacrifice NEW ORLEANS — A New Orleans museum plans to launch an elaborate nighttime sound-and-light show next year to showcase individual stories of bravery and sacrifice during World War II. People isolated connect through social media People isolated connect through social media PHILADELPHIA — As often as three times a day, Alexandra Hackett posts on her TikTok account, adding another video entry to her chronicle of a 20-month journey with long COVID-19. Report: US should make less plastic to save oceans Report: US should make less plastic to save oceans America needs to rethink and reduce the way it generates plastics because so much of the material is littering the oceans and other waters, the National Academy of Sciences says in a new report. Some states update migrant terms Some states update migrant terms AUSTIN, Texas — Luz Rivas remembers seeing the word on her mother's residency card as a child: "alien." State rests in trial of actor Smollett State rests in trial of actor Smollett CHICAGO — The state rested its case at Jussie Smollett's trial Thursday after key testimony from two brothers who said the former “Empire" actor plotted a racist and anti-gay attack on himself in downtown Chicago and paid them to carry it out. Beatrice Daily Sun   Sites & Partners Lincoln Journal Star The Columbus Telegram The Fremont Tribune Services Become a Member Advertise with us RSS Contact Us Newsletters Work here Become a Carrier © Copyright 2021 The Beatrice Daily Sun, 110 S. 6th Street Beatrice,NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 