Skip to main content site-logo FEATURED York College's Cocoa and Carols is back By Eryn Conyers 7 hrs ago  0 1 of 2 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save By Eryn Conyers YORK -- It’s back! The ever-popular Cocoa and Carols program will be performed by the York College Celebration Singers from December 9-12. This family-friendly production will feature secular and sacred Christmas music with choreography. Performances of the high-energy show will be in the Bartholomew Performing Arts Center on the York College campus. Admission is $5 and includes cocoa and cookies. Support Local Journalism Your subscription makes our reporting possible. Show director, Amy Fraser, encourages would-be attendees to reserve a ticket early, as shows usually sell out. Performances on December 9, 10 and 11 will be at 7:30 p.m. On Sunday, December 12, the show will be at 2 p.m. Seating begins 30 minutes before the performance. The show will feature talented students performing a variety of solo and ensemble numbers, including Christmas favorites. The cast includes Mikalya Brant, Zipporah Conway, Justus Coppinger, Luke Dovel, Amanda Fischer, Ross Fraser, Grant Gaer, Ashlee Jimmerson, Bruce Johnson, Leah Lane, Chris Martens, Allison Myers, Isaac Nabb, Kinzie Norton, Maryn Phillips, Bryce Smith, Jordan Strong, Caitlyn Trower, Ian Wallgren and Elizabeth Zaiger. The show is being co-directed by students Emma Seilstad and Desma Hamilton. Ashlee Jimmerson is the student choreographer. Reserve tickets at york.edu/boxoffice. Tags Carol Cocoa Show Christmas Student York College Ashlee Jimmerson Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employersPlay Video spaceplay / pause qunload | stop ffullscreenshift + ←→slower / faster ↑↓volume mmute ←→seek  . seek to previous12… 6 seek to 10%, 20% … 60% NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Be the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Most Popular Student of the Week: Baylie Holthus finds courage in adversity LATEST NEWS Student of the Week: Baylie Holthus finds courage in adversity Dec 3, 2021 YORK -- As senior Baylie Holthus from York High School prepares for her future after high school, she reflects on her story of overcoming adversity. Discovery of drug lab in York leads to arraignment LATEST NEWS Discovery of drug lab in York leads to arraignment Dec 1, 2021 YORK – Yates K. Oneil, 24, of York, has pleaded not guilty to six felony charges stemming from his arrest when local law enforcement officials… Crete man dies in Saline County motorcycle crash CRIME NEWS Crete man dies in Saline County motorcycle crash Updated Dec 3, 2021 Juan Lopez-Adame, who was wearing a helmet, lost control and was thrown from his motorcycle, according to the Saline County Sheriff's Office. Kirby's School of Dance dances at Disney LATEST NEWS Kirby's School of Dance dances at Disney Dec 1, 2021 YORK -- Kirby’s School of Dance recently danced the day away through Main Street USA at Walt Disney World. Prison sentence upheld for Exeter man who let 220 cattle and 1 horse die CRIME & COURTS Prison sentence upheld for Exeter man who let 220 cattle and 1 horse die Updated Dec 1, 2021 District Judge Vicky Johnson, calling the case as “egregious” as a couple of murder cases she has handled, sentenced Aaron Ogren to serve 15 to 20 years in prison for the most serious felony. The appeals court upheld the sentence. McCool man gets jail time for possession, assault LATEST NEWS McCool man gets jail time for possession, assault Dec 2, 2021 YORK – Charles J. Graham, 32, whose address has been listed in court documents as being Geneva and McCool Junction, has been sentenced to jail… York man charged with meth possession during stolen vehicle investigation LATEST NEWS York man charged with meth possession during stolen vehicle investigation Nov 29, 2021 YORK – Cody Brouillette, 27, of York who has also been listed in court documents as a transient, has been formally charged with methamphetamin… From the Permanent Record LATEST NEWS From the Permanent Record Dec 3, 2021 County Court Please, don't feel bad, Santa LATEST NEWS Please, don't feel bad, Santa Dec 3, 2021 Sitting on Santa’s lap is an opportunity the Berg kids do not yet treasure … but in time they will come around. Carson, 1, and Skyler, 3 , the… Wonderline -- Readers ask about PPLP fundraising, assessor license, coach LATEST NEWS Wonderline -- Readers ask about PPLP fundraising, assessor license, coach Dec 3, 2021 The following questions were asked recently on the Wonderline: Recommended for you Steven M. Sipple: NU's ingenuity in recruiting Joseph; Adrian visits K-State; and Fred's issues Steven M. Sipple: NU's ingenuity in recruiting Joseph; Adrian visits K-State; and Fred's issues Times and TV set for Austin volleyball regional (and hope you're able to stay up late) Times and TV set for Austin volleyball regional (and hope you're able to stay up late) Tucsonan finishes five-year quest to profile every USS Arizona casualty at Pearl Harbor Tucsonan finishes five-year quest to profile every USS Arizona casualty at Pearl Harbor NU volleyball team advances with a balanced offensive attack and it comes at a good time NU volleyball team advances with a balanced offensive attack and it comes at a good time site-logo    Sites & Partners Place an Ad Join Our Team Newsletter Signup Photo Submissions Public Notices Services Manage Subscription Subscribe Contact Us Submission Forms Independent Contractor (Newspaper Carrier) © Copyright 2021 York News-Times, 327 Platte Ave York, NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 