Skip to main content site-logo FEATURED TOP STORY North Platte Trails Network celebrates opening of Centennial Park extension before Jingle Bell Run Tim Johnson Dec 4, 2021  0 North Platte Trails Network celebrates opening of Centennial Park extension before Jingle Bell Run Two runners, both decked out in “Where’s Waldo?” garb, near the completion of the mile run course during the Platte River Fitness Series’ Jingle Bell event on Saturday morning in North Platte. The mile course was on the new extension of the the Centennial Park Trail. Roughly 300 individuals competed in the mile run/walk or the 5K at the North Platte Recreation Center. Tim Johnson / The North Platte Telegraph Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Tim Johnson The Jingle Bell 5K and mile run is not only the last among nearly 20 events each year in the Platte River Fitness Series but also the most popular in terms of participants. This year was no different. Around 300 individuals signed up to compete in this year’s version, either in person at the Recreation Center — many of whom sported holiday-themed costumes or attire — or virtually, according to series director Trudy Merritt. Last year’s event was not held due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but the otherwise annual event had a bit of a new twist on Saturday. It was coordinated with a ribbon-cutting ceremony for an extension of the Centennial Park Trail, just south of the Rec Center. The newly-paved half-mile trail served as the course for a down-and-back kids and family mile run or walk. The east-west, tree-lined extension provides a link to the existing Leota and Buffalo Bill Trails within the city. Support Local Journalism Your subscription makes our reporting possible. “It’s just a fantastic connection because you no longer have to be on the road,” said Danielle Remus, the president of the North Platte Trails Network. “It’s safety and even just the ambiance of being on a trail versus on the road with cars and past houses and other activities. You are in nature and the wilderness which provides a whole list of benefits. “There always was a wood-chip dirt surface (trail) back there ... but it was never an official part of the North Platte Trails Network until recently,” Remus said. “The city decided to concrete the path .. and we’re grateful for the city’s investment in our trails system.” The extension was the latest project within the Trails Network. The next is the addition of a half-mile of trail to connect two existing trails — Buffalo Bill and the West Central Research and Extension trails. The trail addition would run in the county right of way along the north side of State Farm Road. It would stretch from about Echo Drive west to Buffalo Bill Avenue. The Lincoln County Board of Commissioners recently approved funds for the project. Construction is expected to begin this spring with an anticipated completion date at the start of July. It is another step to keep bicyclists, runners and pedestrians safe, and allow them to avoid crossing busy roads and highways within the city limits. “Once that State Farm connection is complete, this will pretty much get you from Dunkin’ Donuts all the way around and back,” Shae Caldwell, the Trails Network vice president, told racers in attendance for the ceremony. “You could start with a treat and end with a treat if you want to. Reward yourself. “Our Trails Committee does work really hard to find ways around our city to keep you safe and to keep you healthy.” Tags Platte Trails Network North Platte Trail Highway Transports Building Industry City Planning Buffalo Extension Danielle Remus Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Get local news delivered to your inbox! Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Tim Johnson Tim Johnson News/sports reporter Minneapolis-born. I am a hybrid reporter/photographer covering courts from county and district to basketball and beyond. Author facebook Author twitter Author email Most Popular While North Platte saw the warmest fall on record, the coldest is yet to come LOCAL While North Platte saw the warmest fall on record, the coldest is yet to come Updated Dec 1, 2021 UPDATED, Dec. 1, 9:30 am -- Daily high for Nov. 30 and September-November average high updated to reflect official Nov. 30 high as recorded by…  +2Organizer says racetrack, casino in North Platte could mean $115M in tax revenue LOCAL Organizer says racetrack, casino in North Platte could mean $115M in tax revenue Dec 2, 2021 A proposed horse racetrack and casino in North Platte could mean about $115 million in tax revenues for the city, county and state over a deca… Great Plains Health CEO says judge's ruling to block vaccine mandate was 'right decision at right time' LOCAL Great Plains Health CEO says judge's ruling to block vaccine mandate was 'right decision at right time' Nov 29, 2021 Great Plains Health CEO Mel McNea called a federal judge’s ruling Monday blocking enforcement of a COVID-19 vaccine mandate on health care wor… Packing plant plan advances to North Platte City Council LOCAL Packing plant plan advances to North Platte City Council Nov 29, 2021 With no debate and a unanimous Community Redevelopment Authority vote, Sustainable Beef LLC’s plan to build a meatpacking plant atop a retired… North Platte Council to look at bids for road widening, revised ward lines before beef plant proposal LOCAL North Platte Council to look at bids for road widening, revised ward lines before beef plant proposal Dec 4, 2021 The North Lakeview project, approved by the council on Jan. 21, 2020, would rebuild and widen the narrow two-lane street between West A and Front streets. North Platte City Council to have public hearing, will decide on Sustainable Beef land sale, TIF proposal LOCAL North Platte City Council to have public hearing, will decide on Sustainable Beef land sale, TIF proposal Dec 3, 2021 After a public hearing, members will decide the fate of a redevelopment plan to sell a retired city sewer lagoon for the plant and provide $21.5 million in tax increment financing to help prepare it. Lincoln man robbed after going home with woman from downtown bar, police say CRIME Lincoln man robbed after going home with woman from downtown bar, police say Dec 2, 2021 The 24-year-old called Lincoln police at around 5 a.m. Wednesday and said his money, jewelry and shoes were stolen. North Platte Public Schools superintendent finalists expected on Wednesday LOCAL North Platte Public Schools superintendent finalists expected on Wednesday Dec 4, 2021 An update on the superintendent search will be presented at Monday's meeting before a Wednesday special meeting to decide on four candidates. Interviews will be conducted Dec. 13-16. North Platte couple receives award from Mid-Nebraska Community Foundation LOCAL North Platte couple receives award from Mid-Nebraska Community Foundation Dec 1, 2021 “The extraordinary giving by Joe and Dorothy Conger have benefited a great many people here,” said Eric Seacrest, executive director of the foundation. Recommended for you site-logo    Sites & Partners Place an Ad Farm & Ranch Event Calendar Join Our Team Public Notices Newsletter Sign-up Services Manage Subscription Contact Us Search for Jobs Photo Submissions Announcement Submission Independent Contractor (Newspaper Carrier) Become Independent Contractor Carrier © Copyright 2021 nptelegraph.com, 621 N. Chestnut North Platte, NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 