Skip to main content Back to homepage Please subscribe to keep reading. Enjoy unlimited articles at one of our lowest prices ever. You can cancel at any time. Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on columbustelegram.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Columbus Telegram ALERT TOP STORY CMS eighth-grade students learn real-life skills through Chamber program Andrew Kiser Dec 4, 2021  0 1 of 3 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Andrew Kiser Columbus Middle School eighth-graders had a chance on Friday to witness what it’s like to be an adult by learning how to balance a budget. Around 300 students – who were broken down to 70 in four sections - participated in the Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce Reality 101 course at the CMS gym, 2200 26th St. Reality 101 is part of the chamber’s Drive for Five program which in part helps students get a better understanding of job opportunities in the area. “It’s very much like being an adult,” Chamber Workforce Programs and Recruitment Director Kara Asmus said of the occasion. “It’s probably the first time a lot of them have heard of balancing a checkbook. It shows that child care, homes and even a pair of jeans cost Mom and Dad a lot of money. We have to plan for those things. We just can’t go buy whatever we want.” As part of the program, students visited various booths run by Columbus Public Schools staff or chamber or community members. The kids had a set budget – which included gross pay, taxes and student loans - and went to various vendors to fill out their checkbooks. The booths included housing, vehicles, medical, technology with phones, television and computers, utilities, insurance, groceries, clothing and more. People are also reading… CCH acquires Columbus Cancer Care Family remembers Columbus man killed in officer-involved shooting as 'life of the party' Irish vacation turns into a COVID nightmare for Saunders County couple Lakeview girls haven't backed down in wrestling room Additionally, the eighth graders had to visit the “Life Rolls On” booth twice. The stand gave the kids an unforeseen financial circumstance that they had to fit into their budget. CMS counselor Malia White said she believes the experience was incredibly beneficial for the students, adding she couldn’t recall a similar learning opportunity when she was in either high school or middle school. “It gives them such good basic life skills,” White said. “It gives them steps like if you buy a car, you need to buy car insurance.” She added while helping the eighth graders she noticed how quickly their thoughts changed when they were preparing their budget. “It was so funny,” White said. “… There were so many comments like, ‘Do I have to pay taxes?’ or ‘Kids cost that much money for day care?’ or ‘There’s no way my family is going on vacation.’” Chamber President Dawson Brunswick said essentially the program was giving the students a lifelike adulthood experience. “It’s as close to reality as we can get while getting these eighth graders' experience of what life will be,” he said. “Sometimes it’s not all sunshine and rainbows. … There’s all these different areas that we’re trying to expose them to.” Asmus said the time was used to provide the students an overview of what it's like to be an adult. “You need a good job. You need a plan for how I am going to pay for my child care, housing and car,” she said. “Some of those things are mandatory.” Andrew Kiser is a reporter for The Columbus Telegram. Reach him via email at andrew.kiser@lee.net. Tags Columbus Middle School Eighth Graders Columbus Area Chamber Of Commerce Reality 101 Kara Asmus Students Budget Malia White Dawson Brunswick Cms Get local news delivered to your inbox! Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Andrew Kiser Most Popular WATCH NOW: Columbus receives new recycling option WATCH NOW: Columbus receives new recycling option Columbus residents now have another option to recycle household items with the arrival of a new curbside recycling program. Boal new president of Behlen Boal new president of Behlen Behlen Mfg. Co., headquartered in Columbus, has announced its new president will be Tom Boal. Q&A with new Platte County Clerk Jennifer Brown Q&A with new Platte County Clerk Jennifer Brown Editor's note: On Tuesday, Jennifer Brown was sworn in as the new Platte County Clerk. Later in the day, The Columbus Telegram sat down with B… CCH acquires Columbus Cancer Care CCH acquires Columbus Cancer Care Columbus Cancer Care saw new ownership on Wednesday but Columbus Community Hospital officials say that not much will change in its services. CMS preparing for 'big' production of 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' CMS preparing for 'big' production of 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' This year's fifth-sixth grade Columbus Middle School come back play was planned to be “big,” said Director Stephanie Bourek-Hoyt. CCC-Columbus offers new program CCC-Columbus offers new program A new program for Central Community College-Columbus is designed to be a win-win for students and local companies who’ve signed up for the ent… Lakeview board accepts renovation bid Lakeview board accepts renovation bid A six-classroom addition for Shell Creek Elementary School, 16786 280th St. in Columbus, is expected to cost Lakeview Community Schools roughl… ECDHD: COVID update, omicron variant details ECDHD: COVID update, omicron variant details Over the weekend, another mutated COVID-19 strain known as the omicron variant became the topic of discussion. This variant has been detected … CHS choir prepares new experience for student CHS choir prepares new experience for student Columbus High School Choir Director Jacob Ritter said if he can offer his students new and exciting experiences, he’s on board with it. CHS grad set to perform next weekend CHS grad set to perform next weekend Editor's note: A previous version of this story reported that Ezra will be playing this Saturday. It has since been updated to reflect that Ez… Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Columbus Telegram   Sites & Partners The Banner-Press Schuyler Sun Lincoln Journal Star Beatrice Daily Sun Fremont Tribune Services Subscriber Advertise RSS Contact Us Eedition Work here © Copyright 2021 The Columbus Telegram, 1254 27th Ave. Columbus,NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 