Skip to main content Columbus Telegram SPECIAL REPORT SPOTLIGHT AP Turning outrage into power: How the far right is changing the GOP By BRIAN SLODYSKO, Associated Press 7 hrs ago  0 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Congress Outrage Politics FILE - House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., responds to reporters at the Capitol in Washington, Dec. 3, 2021, about the behavior of Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo.  AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File WASHINGTON (AP) — House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy appears to have settled on a strategy to deal with a handful of Republican lawmakers who have stirred outrage with violent, racist and sometimes Islamophobic comments. If you can't police them, promote them. The path to power for Republicans in Congress is now rooted in the capacity to generate outrage. The alarming language, and the fundraising haul it increasingly produces, is another example of how Donald Trump, the former president, has left his mark on politics, changing the way Republicans rise to influence and authority. Success in Congress, once measured by bills passed and constituents reached, is now gauged in many ways by the ability to attract attention, even if it is negative as the GOP looks to reclaim a House majority next year by firing up Trump's most ardent supporters. That has helped elevate a group of far-right lawmakers — including Reps. Lauren Boebert of Colorado, Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia and Paul Gosar of Arizona — whose inflammatory comments once would have made them pariahs. People are also reading… Lakeview girls haven't backed down in wrestling room CCH acquires Columbus Cancer Care OT thriller gives Columbus its first home win since Valentine's Day 2020 Irish vacation turns into a COVID nightmare for Saunders County couple Congress Outrage Politics FILE - From left, Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., and Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., attend the House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing of the United States Department of Justice with testimony from Attorney General Merrick Garland, Oct. 21, 2021 on Capitol Hill in Washington.  Michaels Reynolds/Pool via AP, File Rather than face punishment for personal attacks that violate longstanding norms of Congress, they've been celebrated by conservatives, who have showered Boebert and Greene with campaign cash. "We are not the fringe. We are the base of the party," Greene, who has previously endorsed calls to assassinate prominent Democrats, said last week on a podcast hosted by former Trump adviser Steve Bannon. The hands-off approach by Republican leadership gives them license to spread hate speech, conspiracy theories and misinformation that can have real world consequences, while testing the resolve of Democrats, who already removed Gosar and Greene from their committees. It's also a different tack from the one McCarthy took in 2019 when he stripped then-Rep. Steve King of Iowa of his committee assignments for lamenting that white supremacy and white nationalism had become offensive terms. Boebert offers the latest example. In two videos that surfaced recently she likened Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Minnesota Democrat who is one of three Muslims in Congress, to a terrorist concealing a bomb in a backpack. Boebert has also repeatedly referred to Omar as belonging to a "jihad squad," as well as "black-hearted" and "evil." Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado suggested to a crowd for a second time in September that Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, whom she called "black-hearted" and "evil," was a terrorist. Video of Boebert making similar comments in November surfaced earlier this week. Her comments drew widespread condemnation and led to calls for Boebert to become the third GOP lawmaker this year to be removed from congressional committees. But instead of publicly apologizing to Omar, a defiant Boebert insisted that Omar should be the one to issue a public apology "to the American people" for her "anti-American" rhetoric, as well as past "anti-Semitic" comments, which Democrats condemned at the time. In the uproar that followed, Omar received death threats, including a voicemail left by a man who called her a "traitor" and suggested she would be soon be taken "off the face of the (expletive) earth." "We cannot pretend this hate speech from leading politicians doesn't have real consequences," Omar said Tuesday while calling on the Republican Party to "actually do something to confront anti-Muslim hatred in its ranks." Boebert, meanwhile, burnished her image through an appearance on Fox News where she blamed Democrats who "want to cancel me" for the controversy. She has raked in $2.7 million so far this year, making her one of the top Republican fundraisers, according to campaign finance disclosures. McCarthy, who is in line to become speaker if Republicans retake the majority in the 2022 midterm elections, downplayed the controversy Friday. He credited Boebert for attempting to privately apologize in a phone call with Omar, while breezing past Boebert's refusal to do so publicly. "In America, that's what we do," he said. "And then we move on." But McCarthy has also indicated that there will be little consequence for personal attacks. Just last month he said those punished by Democrats could be in line for a promotion if he becomes speaker, floating the possibility that Gosar and Greene "may have better committee assignments" than before. That also poses a vexing issue for Democrats. During a Wednesday caucus meeting House Speaker Nancy Pelosi condemned Boebert's behavior, but cautioned that restraint was needed. "This is hard because these people are doing it for the publicity," Pelosi said, according to a person in the room, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private deliberations. "There's a judgment that has to be made about how we contribute to their fundraising and their publicity on how obnoxious and disgusting they can be." In many cases, the incentive to outrage can outweigh the consequences. Greene arrived in Congress this year with a well documented history of making inflammatory comments. A former adherent of the QAnon conspiracy theories, she once mused that a wealthy Jewish family may have used space lasers to spark California wildfires. She's also harassed survivors of school shootings, accused Pelosi of committing crimes punishable by death and appeared in a 2019 video at the Capitol in which she argued Omar and another Muslim representative weren't "really official" members of Congress because they didn't take the oath of office on the Bible. Since her election she's used her nonstop attacks and viral online moments to reap a $6.3 million fundraising windfall — more than three times the cost of the average congressional campaign — while proving to be a speaking draw at Republican fundraisers around the country. "If you say something bats—— crazy, if you say something extreme, you are going to raise money," said Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., who is one of the few Republicans to publicly criticize the rhetoric of her colleagues. Mace, who publicly feuded with Greene last week, said the Georgia lawmaker was a "grifter of the first order" who takes advantage of "vulnerable conservatives." Gosar, who was censured last month after posting an animated video of himself killing Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, is nowhere near as prolific of a fundraiser. But he has become a celebrated figure for white nationalists and has made appearances at fringe right-wing events, including a gathering in Florida last February hosted by Nick Fuentes, an internet personality who has promoted white supremacist beliefs. APTOPIX Congress Gosar Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona, takes an elevator as the House of Representatives prepares to vote on a resolution to formally rebuke him for tweeting an animated video that depicted him striking Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., with a sword, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2021.  AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite Still, some Republicans say just because the three have achieved a measure of fame doesn't mean they have accumulated real influence or staying power. "There's always some gifted communicator who comes in," said Rep. Tom Cole, a 10-term Oklahoma Republican, who used the GOP class of 1994, when Republicans took over the House for the first time in decades, as an example. "We're a long way of knowing how long they'll stay. A lot of the brightest stars of the 1994 class were gone within eight years." Besides he added: "The reality is the first six years, the only thing you are going to do is what they let you." *** 24 possible GOP presidential candidates in 2024 Donald Trump Donald Trump Former President Donald Trump AP Mike Pence Mike Pence Former Vice President Mike Pence AP Ron DeSantis Ron DeSantis Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis AP Josh Hawley Josh Hawley Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Missouri AP Ted Cruz Ted Cruz Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas AP Nikki Haley Nikki Haley Former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley AP Kristi Noem Kristi Noem South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem AP Mike Pompeo Mike Pompeo Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo AP Tucker Carlson Tucker Carlson TV personality Tucker Carlson AP Donald Trump Jr. Donald Trump Jr. Donald Trump Jr. AP Ivanka Trump Ivanka Trump Ivanka Trump AP Rick Scott Rick Scott Sen. Rick Scott, R-Florida AP Tim Scott Tim Scott Sen. Tim Scott, R-South Carolina AP Greg Abbott Greg Abbott Texas Gov. Greg Abbott AP Dan Crenshaw Dan Crenshaw Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas AP Elise Stefanik Elise Stefanik Rep. Elise Stefanik, R-New York AP Tom Cotton Tom Cotton Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Arkansas AP Doug Ducey Doug Ducey Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey AP Larry Hogan Larry Hogan Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan AP Mike Lee Mike Lee Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah AP Marco Rubio Marco Rubio Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida AP Ben Sasse Ben Sasse Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Nebraska AP Joni Ernst Joni Ernst Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa AP Candace Owens Candace Owens Candace Owens, conservative activist AP Tags Dcc Wire Dccjs Nation-world Be the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Most Popular Parents of Michigan school shooting suspect arrested after manhunt; bond set at combined $1M Parents of Michigan school shooting suspect arrested after manhunt; bond set at combined $1M The parents of a teen accused of killing four students in a shooting at a Michigan school were found hiding in a Detroit building early Saturday, hours after a prosecutor filed involuntary manslaughter charges against them. Dad bought gun that teen used to kill 3, wound 8 at at Michigan school, just last week Dad bought gun that teen used to kill 3, wound 8 at at Michigan school, just last week The local sheriff said he didn't know why the boy's father bought the gun. Several students from the shooting remain in critical condition, including a 14-year-old on ventilator. Here's the latest. Police: Student kills 3, wounds 8 at Michigan school Police: Student kills 3, wounds 8 at Michigan school Authorities say eight people were wounded in an attack at a Michigan high school in which three students were killed. CNN suspends Chris Cuomo for helping former NY governor and brother in scandal CNN suspends Chris Cuomo for helping former NY governor and brother in scandal CNN said Tuesday it suspended anchor Chris Cuomo indefinitely after fresh details emerged about how he helped his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, as he faced charges of sexual harassment. Omicron-stricken South Africa may be a glimpse into the future Omicron-stricken South Africa may be a glimpse into the future New COVID-19 cases in South Africa have burgeoned from about 200 a day in mid-November to more than 16,000 on Friday. Here are the latest updates on the omicron variant. Suspect's parents charged in Michigan shooting Suspect's parents charged in Michigan shooting A prosecutor filed involuntary manslaughter charges against the parents of a teen accused of killing four students and wounding seven others in Michigan. US sees first case of omicron variant detected in California US sees first case of omicron variant detected in California The United States' first confirmed case of the omicron coronavirus variant has been identified in California, according to a source familiar. Delta variant still causes almost all US virus cases. Will omicron add misery or fade away? Delta variant still causes almost all US virus cases. Will omicron add misery or fade away? Expert: “Omicron is a spark that’s on the horizon. Delta variant is the fire that’s here today.” With two variants on the loose in the U.S., here's what we know, and what we don't. Plus, the latest maps and stats on the virus. CNN fires anchor Chris Cuomo for helping brother deal with sexual harassment scandal CNN fires anchor Chris Cuomo for helping brother deal with sexual harassment scandal CNN has fired anchor Chris Cuomo after details emerged about how he assisted his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, as the politician faced sexual harassment allegations earlier this year. Fourth student dies from Michigan high school shooting Fourth student dies from Michigan high school shooting A fourth student died Wednesday from wounds he suffered when a sophomore opened fire at a Michigan high school on Tuesday. Here's what's known about the victims. Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Columbus Telegram   Sites & Partners The Banner-Press Schuyler Sun Lincoln Journal Star Beatrice Daily Sun Fremont Tribune Services Subscriber Advertise RSS Contact Us Eedition Work here © Copyright 2021 The Columbus Telegram, 1254 27th Ave. Columbus,NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 