Home News Sports Obituaries Photos Videos e-Edition Classifieds Real Estate/Auctions Toggle navigation site-logo Next Up NEXT UP GROW Award for Triple Blessed	 GROW Award for Triple Blessed Triple Blessed Boutique on the north side of the Square has … FEATURED Juanito's celebrates with ribbon cutting Mona Weatherly Dec 6, 2021 Updated 5 hrs ago  Juanito's Dec 3 2021 ribbing cutting Eric Rodriguez cuts the ribbon for Juanito's on Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. Maria Rodriguez, far left, and Juan Rodriguez, far right, run the restaurant which offers authentic Mexican food and desserts. Mona Weatherly Facebook Twitter Email Print Save For those who would like a taste of authentic Mexican food and desserts, check out Juanito's just west of the Square on South D Street in Broken Bow. A ribbon cutting was held on Friday, Dec. 3, 2021 to celebrate the restaurant's membership in the Broken Bow Chamber of Commerce. The business opened this June and offers authentic Mexican food including burritos, tortas and quesadillas as well as variety of Mexican desserts such as Mexican ice cream, popsicles and fruit. The ice cream is made in Lincoln. "It's natural," owner Juan Rodriguez said. "Like homemade." The shop is owned by Juan Rodriguez and he runs it along with his daughter, Maria, and grandson, Eric. The eatery is open 11 a.m.-9 p.m., Monday-Friday, and 3 p.m.-9p.m. Saturday and Sunday. It is located in the old Harmony Hut building at 926 South D Street about a half block west of the Square on South D Street. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content. Most Popular  Articles Garage and vehicle destroyed by fire Accident south of Oconto claims one life Police Sgt doing well, fire electrical in nature Festival of Lights 2021! Festival of Lights tonight! Ribbon cutting for Sandhills Custom Creations Omicron COVID variant identified in Nebraska How about a little decency GROW Award for Triple Blessed Juanito's celebrates with ribbon cutting Sections News Sports Business Entertainment Local Events Obituaries Multimedia Online Features Services Subscription Services Submission Forms Classifieds Promote Your Event Email Alerts Place an Ad Rack Locations Search Weather site-logo custercountychief.com 305 South 10th Avenue Broken Bow, NE 68822 Phone: 308-872-2471 Email: publisher@custercountychief.com Follow Us    © Copyright 2021 Custer County Chief, 305 South 10th Avenue Broken Bow, NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 