Vandals are cutting lights at Schellville, the popular Rehoboth Beach Christmas attraction Shannon Marvel McNaught Delaware News Journal Schellville, the popular Christmas attraction in Rehoboth Beach, has experienced vandalism almost every night since it opened, according to Schell Brothers spokesperson Alyssa Titus. "To the GRINCH who is cutting lights nightly at Schellville," she wrote in a Facebook post. "Why?" Strings of lights are being cut mainly on the south side of the attraction, in the area of the maze. "Clean cuts clearly by a knife," Titus said. Lights have also been unplugged, which Titus said she is sure is not an accident "because they are in places that you have to seek out to unplug." RELATED:This winter festival is popping up behind the outlets at Rehoboth Beach. We've got details One of the severed string of lights at Schellville. "We have spent hours tracking down the cuts and then re-stringing lights. When there is one cut, it can take out lights in an entire section because they are chained together," Titus said. "Schellville Enchanted Winter Celebration" is located behind Tanger Outlets Seaside, off Holland Glade Road. The Christmas-loving homebuilding company Schell Brothers first brought Schellville, a scaled-down town with nine miniature houses, to the Delaware beaches in 2017. This year, they undertook a massive expansion. In addition to the miniature houses, there's a skating rink, a maze, entertainment, food vendors, shopping, Santa Claus, miniature train rides and more.  Schellville expanded in 2021 and relocated to Holland Glade Road, behind Tanger Outlets Seaside. MORE:Have you seen holiday lights at Hudson Fields? That's because Winter WonderFest is back It's free to the public and run entirely by volunteers. Delaware State Police have been notified of the vandalism, according to Titus, and cameras are being installed. "A great deal of time, energy and community effort went into creating this," Titus said, addressing the vandals on Facebook. "You are making extra work for us daily, but we are committed to keeping our village bright and fun! You will not deter our mission of happiness."