Share:  Hospitality Night draws crowd to downtown Lewes Festive celebration welcomes residents and visitors to city’s shops Serving up some hot cocoa and cookies at Nectar are (l-r) Cindy Abood, social media director; Leslie McDonald, chief creative officer; and Lisa McDonald, owner. NICK ROTH PHOTOS Nick Roth December 3, 2021 After a year off due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Merchants’ Hospitality Night returned to downtown Lewes Dec. 2. With shops all dressed up for the season, locals and visitors alike wandered around Second Street and the surrounding area in search of good deals, sweet treats and some warm refreshments.  Hospitality Night kicks off a weekend of Christmas cheer in the First Town. The second year of Lewes Lights will officially begin Friday, Dec. 3, then the Lewes Christmas Parade will step off at 5 p.m., Saturday, Dec. 4, immediately followed by a tree-lighting ceremony and candlelight caroling in Zwaanendael Park.    Sweet treats and tasty libations at the new Bramble & Brine at The Buttery draws a big crowd. Santa and his helper Robyn DelleMonache greet children during Hospitality Night. The Cape Henlopen High School Jazz Band performs some classic holiday tunes. The Cape Chorale sings Christmas songs for the Second Street crowd. Active Adults Realty owners Bill and Christine Davis set up a fun, interactive display outside their new location on Second Street. Serving up some Dogfish Head beers and spirits are (l-r) Mark Carter, Beer and Benevolence director; Shai Sefiane, marketing and events; and Kelly Thomas, social media. A few Hospitality Night guests chat around the Dogfish Inn firepit. Stepping Stone on Market Street always has festive windows during the holiday season. The Vintage Underground and Beach Jetty welcome guests on Hospitality Night. Fairy Godmother on Second Street draws in guests with its festive windows. Bill Rash and Megan Phillips of the Full Sales Real Estate Team with the Parker Group welcome guests into their Second Street office.