Maryland lawmakers launch special session to take on Hogan vetoes, political maps Brian WitteAssociated Press Maryland lawmakers gathered Monday for a special session to redraw the state's congressional map after the release of new census data and to override many of Gov. Larry Hogan's vetoes of measures from the last session. The Maryland Senate quickly got down to business in their first morning session by starting to override vetoes. Democrats, who control both chambers in the General Assembly, need a three-fifths vote in the House and Senate to override the Republican governor. The Senate voted 31-16 to override Hogan's veto of a bill to repeal a requirement that parole for an inmate serving a life sentence must be approved by the governor. The long-fought measure puts the decision in the control of a parole commission. “It simply puts us in line with 47 other states that allow their parole commissions to be the final arbiters in determining whether a person's liberty should be restored,” said Sen. Jill Carter, a Baltimore Democrat. The Maryland Senate gathers in Annapolis for the first day of a special session on Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, to take up a proposed new congressional map, as well as to vote to override vetoes by Gov. Larry Hogan from the last legislative session. Lawmakers were scheduled to hold a hearing Monday on legislation outlining the state's eight U.S. House districts. Democrats who hold a supermajority in the legislature control the redistricting process in Maryland. A panel that included House Speaker Adrienne Jones and Senate President Bill Ferguson, who are both Democrats, has recommended a map they say makes districts more compact and easily followed. It also would make the state's only congressional seat held by a Republican more competitive. The seat in the state's 1st Congressional District, which includes the Eastern Shore, is now held by Rep. Andy Harris. Critics of the proposal, including Hogan, say the map continues a legacy of gerrymandering in a state long criticized for sprawling districts specifically drawn to favor Democrats. More:All Maryland adults eligible to receive coronavirus booster shot More:Maryland General Assembly special session set to begin Monday “Basically what we have is a General Assembly down here to gerrymander the state against the wishes of the vast majority of voters and also not going to take action on crime — and in fact make things worse,” said Sen. Justin Ready, a Carroll County Republican. “I don't understand the disconnect.” Hogan is proposing a separate map drawn by a panel of citizen appointees. The commission appointed by the governor had nine members: three Democrats, three Republicans and three Independents. “This Commission allowed citizens, instead of politicians, to draw congressional and legislative district lines in a fair and impartial manner,” Hogan said in written testimony submitted to lawmakers Monday. The governor also is proposing emergency crime legislation to increase penalties for violent offenders who illegally possess firearms and to publish detailed information on sentences handed down by judges for violent crimes. Hogan's vetoes The Maryland Senate gathers in Annapolis for the first day of a special session on Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, to take up a proposed new congressional map, as well as to vote to override vetoes by Gov. Larry Hogan from the last legislative session. Meanwhile, one of Hogan's high-profile vetoes will be sustained. A bill that would decriminalize the possession of drug paraphernalia for personal use passed the Senate earlier this year 28-19, one vote short of the 29 votes needed for an override. David Schuhlein, a spokesperson for Ferguson, said the veto override on that measure won't be brought up in the special session. Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account “It’s an incredibly complicated issue and we are committed to addressing it in regular session," Schuhlein said. Lawmakers are expected to take up Hogan's vetoes of two bills supported by immigration advocates, including a measure that would prohibit local jails from entering into agreements with federal authorities on immigration-related detentions. More:Sports betting OK'd for Ocean Downs, four other Maryland casinos More:Maryland draft political maps take on Andy Harris' 1st District, renew gerrymandering calls The bill bans local jails from being paid by the federal government to detain people on immigration matters in Maryland. The other measure Hogan vetoed would require state employees to deny inspection of records or use of facial recognition technology by any federal agency seeking to enforce immigration law unless provided with a valid warrant. The special session is expected to last several days and could be wrapped up by late this week. In other business, lawmakers also are scheduled to select a new state treasurer to replace Nancy Kopp, who is retiring. Last month, a panel of lawmakers voted unanimously to recommend Delegate Dereck Davis, a Prince George's County Democrat, to become the state’s next treasurer. The treasurer holds one of three seats on the state’s powerful Board of Public Works. The treasurer also leads several key state boards and financial planning committees, including the Maryland State Retirement and Pension Systems.