Substitute teachers wanted in Washington County Public Schools Sherry Greenfield The Herald-Mail Washington County Public Schools is actively looking for more substitute teachers amidst a nationwide shortage due to some people who are "apprehensive" about working in a school setting for fear of catching COVID-19. "Some are apprehensive, because the education environment is at higher risk, particularly through the pandemic," Erin Anderson, the school system's communication's officer said in an interview Friday. School districts across the country are dealing with substitute teachers shortages. When school systems go without the adequate number of substitutes, it puts a strain on staff members, some districts are finding. "Substitute teachers play a vital role in the continuity of learning at Washington County Public Schools," Tim Haines, recruitment and retention coordinator for the school system, stated in an email last week. "WCPS hires substitute teachers year-round and encourages applicants with a wide variety of career experiences as well as those early in their career who are looking for opportunities in the classroom or who need the high level of flexibility that substitute teaching allows." WCPS has 430 active substitute teachers for the current 2021-22 school year. That's lower than what WCPS had on record for the 2020-21 year. Anderson said in an interview that the exact number of substitute teachers in 2020-21 was not available because fewer substitutes were actually used when WCPS was conducting classes virtually because of COVID-19.  For 2021-2022, human resources directly contacted its pool of active substitutes on record at the beginning of the school year to see if they wanted to come back, since students were back in the classrooms. Haines stated that interested candidates are "encouraged to apply immediately," at http://wcpshr.com. Qualifications The selection of substitutes is made based on academic training, certification status, past teaching experience, an interview and recommendations, according to the Washington County Public Schools' website. The minimum qualification for substitute teachers is a high school diploma, according to Haines. The daily base pay is $90. Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account Substitutes that have earned a bachelor’s degree make $103 per day, and substitutes with a bachelor’s degree and full teacher certification earn $130. WCPS also offers resident substitute positions that assign an individual to a specific school daily and pay an additional $30 per day. "Itinerant substitute positions guarantee work every day at any school in the county and offer an additional $50 per day," Haines said. "Opportunities also exist for long-term substitute positions and adjunct teachers." A closer look Minimum Requirements High School Diploma or GED Ability to follow oral or written instructions Ability to communicate clearly Ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodations Responsibilities The substitute teacher shall: Make every effort to preserve the regular routine of the class, follow the plans designed by the classroom teacher and perform such duties as required. Attend special orientation sessions provided by the school system and such meetings as requested by the school administration. Complete reports that are requested or required by the school. Notify the Human Resources Office immediately if he or she is no longer available for substitute work. Demonstrate a courteous and professional demeanor to all stakeholders of Washington County Public Schools. Perform other duties as assigned. An applicant shall not be considered for a substitute teaching assignment until the following documents are presented. This includes a verification of education such as a copy of diploma, transcripts or teaching certificate if applicable. For more information, email to hr@wcps.k12.md.us. Sherry Greenfield is an education reporter, covering Washington County Public Schools. Follow Sherry on Twitter at Sheina2018 or Instagram at beckmangreenfield.