 Presque Isle Lights was targeted by a fake Facebook event portraying a bigger display Dana Massing Erie Times-News Presque Isle Lights kicked off this past weekend but an unofficial Facebook event caused problems for the display at the state park by making it appear bigger and brighter. "They've stolen photos from HersheyPark and blended them with photos from our Facebook page and our website," said Jon DeMarco, executive director of the Presque Isle Partnership. Presque Isle Partnership Executive Director Jon DeMarco visits the Presque Isle Lighthouse in 2020 while preparing for the first Presque Isle Lights. DeMarco, whose nonprofit is the official host of Presque Isle Lights, said the images for a false Dec. 3 Facebook event inaccurately portrayed Presque Isle Lights as more glamorous and light-filled than the real event. "It is far beyond what visitors would see at Presque Isle," he said. DeMarco, whose nonprofit is the official host of Presque Isle Lights, said the images for the false Dec. 3 Facebook event inaccurately portrayed it as more glamorous and light-filled than the real event. "It is far beyond what visitors would see at Presque Isle," he said. That angered and disappointed some visitors who saw the unofficial event listing and drove hours to reach Presque Isle in Erie County, expecting to see more lights than are put up at the state park, DeMarco said. Official event:Presque Isle State Park to shine with second annual driving tour of light displays In announcing in October that the self-guided evening driving tour of seasonal lights would return this December, he had warned visitors not to expect some huge Clark Griswold "Christmas Vacation" style of crazy light show. DeMarco said the partnership wants to put on an annual event that brings people to Presque Isle State Park and highlights its beauty but that also is tasteful, responsible and protective of the natural environment. He did say that more lights and more colored lights would be added this year. But they are not to the extent that were shown for the unofficial Facebook event. The Erie Times-News reached out via Facebook and email to World Explore Virtual Tour Live, listed on Facebook as the "host" of the unofficial event, but had received no response as of late Monday morning. The unofficial Facebook event listing described World Explore Virtual Tour Live as an "event planner." A link on its Facebook page went to a site that had what appeared to be nonsense and/or Latin text, a nonexistent address in New York City and a phone number of "1234567890." "It's definitely illegitimate," DeMarco said about the Presque Isle Lights Facebook event by World Explore Virtual Tour Live. "We don't know exactly what the motive is." However, he said the false event, which was only dated for Dec. 3 but mentions that Presque Isle Lights continues throughout December, included links for people to book tickets. He said tickets aren't required for the free event. Donations are accepted but at a booth in the Vista 2 parking lot on the peninsula. Volunteers at the booth the first weekend did try to determine if visitors had come because of the false event listing and educate them about it, DeMarco said. He said there was also a link on the unofficial event for a livestream. He said he was hesitant to click on the links for fear of a scam. He advised others to not click on any of the links and to report the unofficial event on Facebook as a scam. DeMarco said information about the "official" event can be found on the Presque Isle Partnership's Facebook page, which also includes this statement about the unofficial event: "We have fallen victim to the dark side of Facebook. An unofficial Facebook account 'World Explore Virtual Tour Live' created an event for OUR Presque Isle Lights event and used deceptive images (from Hershey Park) to falsely market the event. We are unsure of their motive but recommend that you not click any links they provide in their descriptions or comment feeds. "Please help us remove their page by reporting it as a 'fraud/scam.'" DeMarco said Monday morning that he hadn't received any response from World Explore Virtual Tour Live regarding requests for the event to be taken down or from Facebook seeking to have the event declared a scam. Meg Loncharic:Presque Isle State Park lights display to become annual event Aside from the issues caused by the unofficial Facebook event, DeMarco said the first weekend of Presque Isle Lights went well.  "It certainly has thrown a bit of a wrench in our efforts to accurately portray what the Presque Isle Lights experience will be," he said. "Aside from that, it's really been a joyful welcoming event and a chance to see some smiling faces and say 'thank you' for your support throughout the year." The official version of Presque Isle Lights will continue Dec. 9-12, 16-19 and 23-26 from 6 to 9 p.m. DeMarco said that not all the lights will be on Christmas Eve and Christmas night because volunteers won't be out those days to flip switches for lights that don't go on automatically. Contact Dana Massing at dmassing@timesnews.com. Follow her on Twitter @ETNmassing. 