Login E-Paper The Danville News Alexa Flash Briefing App News Sports Features Opinion Obituaries Inside Pennsylvania Puzzles & Comics Calendars Celebrations Classifieds Archives Shop Public Notices Contact Us Subscribe Toggle navigation Next Up NEXT UP Dems: Discovery, AT&T merger will hurt diversity, workers	 Dems: Discovery, AT&T merger will hurt diversity, workers House Democrats are raising concerns that the proposed merge… AP Jussie Smollett testifies at his trial: 'There was no hoax' By DON BABWIN and SARA BURNETT Associated Press 13 min ago  1 of 9      CHICAGO (AP) — Former “Empire” actor Jussie Smollett denied Monday that he staged an anti-gay, racist attack on himself in downtown Chicago, testifying at his trial that “there was no hoax.” Smollett, who faces charges that he lied to Chicago police about the January 2019 attack, sought to refute damaging testimony from two brothers last week. They said Smollett, who is gay and Black, orchestrated the hoax to get publicity, giving them $100 for supplies and instructing them to place a noose around his neck and yell homophobic slurs. They also said Smollett gave them a $3,500 check to carry it out. Smollett told jurors he had just returned from a trip and was walking home after buying a sandwich when someone yelled to him about the TV show then shouted a racist, homophobic remark. Smollett said he was angry and turned around to confront the person, who he said towered over him. Standing up in the Chicago courtroom, Smollett demonstrated how he said the man walked quickly toward him, then pointed to his left temple to show the jury where the man hit him. “I would like to think I landed a punch. But I don’t know if it landed," Smollett said. He said he slipped and they tussled on the ground for up to 30 seconds. Smollett said he saw a second person — who he believes kicked him on his side — as that person ran away. Smollett said he assumed the person who attacked him was white because he used a racial slur and shouted it was “MAGA country,” an apparent reference to then-President Donald Trump's campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again.” The brothers, Abimbola and Olabingo Osundairo, who are Black, testified last week that Smollett instructed them to yell “this is MAGA country” during the fake assault. Smollett said he picked up his phone and told the person he had been talking to that he “got jumped.” He noticed he had a noose around his neck as he got up, grabbed his sandwich and went up to his apartment. Smollett said he removed the noose but a friend who was at his apartment called police and told him to put the noose back on so officers could see it. Smollett said he was upset police had been called because he would never have done so. “I am a Black man in America. I do not trust the police,” Smollett said. “I am also a well known figure at that time and I am an openly gay man.” Smollett also testified he wrote the $3,500 check for nutrition and training advice from Abimbola Osundairo while he was going to be out of town. Asked by his defense attorney if he gave Osundairo payment for some kind of hoax, Smollett replied: “Never." The attorney asked again if he planned a hoax. “No," Smollett said, “there was no hoax.” He also said “absolutely not” when asked if he gave Osundairo and his brother $100 to pay for supplies for the fake attack. Smollett said after news broke that everyone — including Trump — had an opinion about what happened, and that he hated the attention. “I've lost my livelihood,” he added. Smollett also testified that Osundairo told him about an herbal steroid that encourages weight loss but is illegal in the U.S. He said Osundairo told the actor he could get him some “on the low” — or secretly — while he was on an upcoming trip to Nigeria. Osundairo testified that Smollett sent him a text message — which jurors saw last week — about talking “on the low,” and that during the conversation Smollett asked him about helping to stage the attack. Smollett said Monday that message was in reference to the illegal steroid, and he used language Osundairo had used previously. Defense attorneys have suggested the Osundairo brothers were motivated to accuse Smollett of staging the hoax because they disliked him and then saw an opportunity to make money. They suggested that after the brothers were questioned by police about the alleged attack, they asked Smollett for $1 million each to not testify against him at trial. Smollett’s lawyers also have argued that Chicago police rushed to judgment when they brought charges against Smollett, and suggested a third person may have been involved in the attack. Smollett said he met Abimbola Osundairo in 2017 at a club, where he learned Osundairo also worked on the set of “Empire.” He said the two men did drugs together and went to a bathhouse, where Smollett said they “made out." Over time, he said the two men did more drugs and participated in sex acts together. Osundairo testified last week that he and Smollett didn’t have a sexual relationship. Smollett testified that he met Abimbola's brother, Olabingo, but that they didn't speak and “he kind of freaked me out.” He said Abimbola Osundairo made it seem like they needed to “sneak off” when they were together around his brother. Smollett said he never trusted Olabingo Osundairo. Prosecutors say Smollett staged the attack because he was unhappy with the “Empire” studio’s response to hate mail he received. The letter including a drawing of a stick figure hanging by a noose, with a gun pointed at it, and the word “MAGA.” Brett Mahoney, who produced “Empire” in Chicago, testified earlier Monday that law enforcement was contacted and the letter turned over to authorities. He said Smollett agreed to added on-set security, but didn’t want anyone following him home because it was too intrusive. Smollett testified that he thought the studio was doing or suggesting too much security, such as wanting someone to drive him to and from the set. He said Abimbola Osundairo joked about becoming his security, but that he didn’t take it seriously. Also Monday, security guard Anthony Moore said that around the time of the alleged assault, he saw a person on the ground at the end of the block and two men running, one of whom was white. Moore said he told police what he saw, but when he was later questioned by the special prosecutor he felt pressured to change his story. Moore testified that he signed a statement that said the person was “possibly” a Black man, but that he felt “pressure and threatened to put something out there that I didn’t see.” Under cross-examination, Moore said he only saw the man for one to two seconds. He also said he thought the men were fooling around, and that the two men were laughing as they ran by him. Smollett, 39, is charged with six counts of felony disorderly conduct for making what prosecutors say was a false police report about the alleged attack — one count for each time he gave a report — to three different officers. The class 4 felony carries a prison sentence of up to three years, but experts have said if Smollett is convicted he likely would be placed on probation and ordered to perform community service. ——— Check out the AP’s complete coverage of the Jussie Smollett case. Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission. Tags General News Arts And Entertainment Celebrity Entertainment Crime Legal Proceedings Law And Order Assault And Battery Violent Crime Trials Celebrity Legal Affairs Gays And Lesbians Social Affairs Social Issues Race And Ethnicity Health Nutrition Locations Chicago Illinois United States North America TRENDING VIDEO NEWSPAPER ADS OBITUARIES FISHER, Alene Mar 1, 1954 - Dec 3, 2021 BAUBLES, Barbara Jun 28, 1940 - Dec 6, 2021 MEACHUM JR., Ralph Aug 11, 1926 - Dec 4, 2021 (NOLT) MARTIN, Emma Feb 5, 1935 - Dec 4, 2021 LAGEORGE, Linda Feb 11, 1941 - Dec 2, 2021 SWARTZ, Robert  E., 85, Thompsontown SWARTZ, Robert E., 85, Thompsontown KUHNS, James, 81, Shamokin Dam KUHNS, James, 81, Shamokin Dam BICKEL, Barry E., 60, Watsontown BICKEL, Barry E., 60, Watsontown Updegraff, Richard S., 61, Northumberland Updegraff, Richard S., 61, Northumberland BOYER, Deborah L., 55, Mifflinburg BOYER, Deborah L., 55, Mifflinburg HACKENBERG, Kenneth E., 77, Middleburg HACKENBERG, Kenneth E., 77, Middleburg INKROTE, Ronald R., 71, Sunbury INKROTE, Ronald R., 71, Sunbury NOW HIRING Now Hiring SHOP LOCAL Shop Local THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS DAILY ITEM REPRINTS Daily Item Reprints First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. CONTACT INFORMATION dailyitem.com 200 Market Street Sunbury, PA 17801 Phone: 570-286-5671 Email: customerservice@dailyitem.com SERVICES About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Subscriber Services Submission Forms California Privacy Policy California Collection Notice Do Not Sell My Info SECTIONS News Comics Puzzles Sports Community Opinion Obituaries Photos Video Gallery Weather © Copyright 2021 DailyItem.com, 200 Market Street Sunbury, PA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 