 How the Cambria Somerset Authority is trying to make do with less from the counties Beth Ann Miller The Daily American The Cambria Somerset Authority, aka CSA, is borrowing a total of $200,000 less next year from the two counties that help support its operation. At its December meeting on Thursday, the authority board approved a loan agreement for 2022. The CSA is to borrow $190,140 from both the Cambria County and Somerset County governments as part of its overall $1.4-million operating budget.  That amount is $100,000 less from each county than the authority has borrowed in recent years, authority Chairman James Greco said.  Fewer breaks:Why the Cambria Somerset Authority is counting on a grant to end water supply problems Holi-day trips:Seeking a Hallmark Christmas experience? These 16 destinations aren't far from Somerset. Bookmobile:Booking down the Pennsylvanian roads in Somerset County How is CSA loan money used? The annual loans are needed to pay on a bond issue and bank loan that the authority has used to finance the cost of the reservoirs it purchased from Manufacturers Water Co. more than two decades ago. "We make enough money (through the sale of municipal water) to fund our normal operating costs," Greco said, "but not to pay our debt service." Authority members have refinanced the debt twice since the reservoirs were purchased, Greco said. The bonds are scheduled to be paid off in June of 2029. The bank loan is to be paid off in June of 2034. Somerset County Commissioner Colleen Dawson abstained from the vote to approve the agreement with Somerset County. Cambria County Commissioner William "BJ" Smith abstained from the vote to approve the agreement with Cambria County. Both commissioners are members of the authority board. Is the CSA in good financial shape? The loan amount from each county is less for 2022 because the authority's emergency repair fund is starting the year in a stronger position, Greco said. Fewer emergency repairs to the system were needed in 2021 than in recent years. "We're managing a 120-year-old system," he said. "We've always tried to run a very frugal system. We try to run it as cheaply as possible without jeopardizing the future, and we've operated (the properties) with less people than Manufacturers Water Co. did for the last 20 years we've owned it." The authority's 2022 budget also includes grants of $47,550 from each county to make monthly payments on two Pennvest loans the authority secured for work at the Quemahoning Reservoir and on the Quemahoning pipeline. Those loans are scheduled to be paid off in 2023, Greco said. 