.....Advertisement..... .....Advertisement..... Subscribe to the paper NIE Contact us Submit news Place an AdMonday, December 6, 2021LOGIN TO YOUR ACCOUNT: Not registered? Sign up View Forecast 71°F Humidity: 38% Search GalaxGazette.com  Search EVENTS CALENDAR «   December   » S	M	T	W	T	F	S       1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   28   29   30   31     Upcoming Events HOMENEWSSPORTSOPINIONOBITUARIESFEATURESSPECIAL SECTIONSCLASSIFIEDSPUBLIC NOTICES Read a digital copy of the latest Galax Gazette online. Christmas events around the Twin Counties -AA+A Bookmark and Share There are a lot of holiday happenings this weekend, from parades and shopping to music and festivals Thursday, December 2, 2021 at 5:34 pm PopularRelated Christmas events around the Twin Counties Grayson initiatives making progress Tide adds another region title to collection Woodlawn man arrested for vet clinic break-in Galax schools test for COVID High Country Lights return Galax Police Dept. reports recent arrests Delivering love, one box at a time more Your Jack-O-Lanterns have been turned into pumpkin pie and all the turkey leftovers have been gobbled up. There's a chill in the air and lights twinkle all over town. That means it's officially time to kick off the Christmas season, and the Twin Counties are doing do in style with a weekend packed with parades, shopping, music, festive foods and light displays. <div class="source">Ethan Campbell</div><div class="image-desc">Santa Claus arrives at a previous Hillsville Christmas Parade.</div><div class="buy-pic"></div> Ethan Campbell Santa Claus arrives at a previous Hillsville Christmas Parade. Galax Dec. 3-4 in downtown Galax is poised to be one of the busiest ever, according to Tourism Director Emily Brown. Everything kicks off on Friday evening with the Christmas Tree Lighting ceremony, which will take place at the Galax Police Department courtyard at 6:30 p.m., followed by the Galax Christmas Parade at 7 p.m. The parade begins at the police department and ends at Felts Park. Saturday will see the city's first-ever Christmas Festival, from 4-10 p.m. There will be 80-plus homemade or handmade craft vendors, several food vendors, caroling, musical performances, pictures with Santa, s’mores, fireplaces and a luminary walk. On the Grayson Street Stage, Marshall, McDowell and Tate will perform at 4 p.m., Dori Freeman will perform at 5:30 p.m. and Loose Strings will perform at 7 p.m. Caroling starts at 4 p.m., with different churches, schools and groups performing at the intersection of Center and Main streets. There will be five fireplaces located on Main Street. S’mores kits will be available to the first 100 people who show a receipt to both an outside vendor and a Main Street business. The s’mores can be made at one of the five firepits, or taken home to enjoy later. S’mores can be picked up at the Galax Visitor’s Center on East Grayson Street. A photographer will offer free family portraits with Santa from 5-7 p.m. at the gazebo on North Main Street. Saturday will also see the beginning of this year’s Holiday Artists Market inside the Chestnut Creek School of the Arts, at the corner of Main and Grayson streets downtown. Ornament decorating stations will also be open for a $1 donation, along with lots of local artists’ works for sale, just in time for Christmas. Galax City Schools will set up a luminary walk on Center Street. Students are decorating and setting up more than 1,000 luminaries during the event. High Country Lights will continue in Felts Park this weekend - and every evening through Jan. 2. The Christmas light show set to music – bigger than ever this year - takes an hour to cycle through. To enjoy the display, drive into the Galax Rec Center parking lot on South Main Street and tune your car’s radio to 95.9 FM. High Country Lights runs Sunday-Thursday 6-10 p.m. and Friday-Saturday 6-11 p.m. Several special events and vendors are planned this weekend at High Country Lights: Funnel Cake Factory (Dec. 2-5), Chik-Fil-A (Dec. 3-4), Blue Ridge Tree Factory (Dec. 2-5), Jeff Johnson Chevrolet Food & Toy Drive (Dec. 3-4), Briar Patch Cafe (Dec. 4), carriage rides (Dec. 4) and Blue Ridge Fudge Lady (Dec. 4-5). Morning show co-host Lora Songster of 99.5 FM-WMAG will be giving away Tweetsie Railroad Christmas tickets to winners on Dec. 4, too. You must register to win. There will be cash donation boxes for the Galax Volunteer Fire Department’s Christmas Community Food Fund and Access Home Health will be offering “tree adoptions” for charity. Grayson County Grayson County and the towns of Independence and Fries are planning two days packed with holiday cheer this weekend. Making Grayson Glow (MGG) has joined forces this year with Grayson County Tourism and the Historic 1908 Courthouse Foundation to bring Christmas joy to the area. The activies are part of the regional Hometown Holiday Tour initiative, which encourages people to visit the three adjoining areas of Grayson County and Galax in Virginia and Alleghany County, N.C. Grayson will kick off the Christmas season with the first Hometown Holiday Market on Friday from 3-7 p.m. at the Historic 1908 Courthouse. “This market in the centerpiece of the county will be held indoors so shoppers will be warm and dry,” said Jeff Miller, town council member and MGG organizer. “Vendors will be on both floors of the 1908, and the areas are handicapped accessible.” At the market, 14 artisans will be selling their wares, along with The Treasury (the 1908's gift shop). Homefeathers and Paddleyax on Main Street will be open late for shopping, too. The market vendors will sell pottery, fresh-roasted coffees, fiber arts, woodworks, painted gourd gifts, food, soaps and candles; along with ceramics from Blue Ridge Tree Factory. The Treasury will have two new introductory candle fragrances that can only be purchased at the gift shop - Christmas Memories of Grayson and Memories of Grayson. Both fragrances were created by Anvil Rock Candle Company to help with The Treasury's fundraising effort to redo the shop in early 2022. Grayson County High School and Independence Middle School Chorus will perform songs of the season Friday at 6 p.m. on the courthouse lawn, and there will be a bake sale by Gospel Temple. At 6:30 p.m., the Making Grayson Glow Christmas tree will be lit, signaling the beginning of the Christmas season. The 20-foot tree donated to MGG by Dustin Snow of Blue Ridge Home Healthcare, will shine throughout the season. The tree lighting will be followed by a raffle drawing on the lawn, hot cider and cookies. The holiday happenings continue Saturday in Independence. There will be a Winter Farmers' Market on Courthouse Street from 11 a.m.-2 p.m., where you can shop locally for food and artisan crafts. The Independence Christmas Parade is at 3 p.m., with the theme “Let There Be Peace on Earth.” The parade starts at Food City Plaza and ends at the 1908 Courthouse on Main Street. The town will hand out treat bags to kids at the ourthouse. Independence Volunteer Fire Department is once again doing its annual coat and toy drive in conjunction with the parade on Dec. 4. Joining IVFD in the drive are the Town of Independence, Independence Cares, Independence Police Department, Independence Volunteer Rescue Squad and Grayson VFW Post 7726. On Saturday, the IVFD invites donors to “Flood the Fire Truck” - bring new toys and coats and firefighters will collect them during the parade. Or, IVFD will have a drive-thru drop-off at the fire house on Saturday from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. New toys and coats will be accepted until Dec. 5. Drop-off sites include Adams Building Supply, Independence Town Office, Quik Chek, Grayson Express and Guynn Furniture. For more information on donating or sponsoring, contact Matthew Adams at (276) 237-1393 or Candace Hash at (276) 233-2165. The Town of Fries will hold its Christmas on the Mountain celebration Saturday from 8 a.m.-4 p.m. at the Fries Community Center, featuring local craft vendors, live music, history talks, food and more. The public is invited and admission is free. Longtime local residents will offer short talks about the rich history and culture of Fries, presented in the historic Fries Theater. Fries historian Becky Moore will talk about the beginning years of Fries at 10:30 a.m.; Washington Mills former employees Scottie and Cathy Vaughan will tell about what it was like to work in the mill at 11:30 a.m.; and local musician Eddie Bond will talk about old-time music and how it started in Fries at 12:30 p.m. Breakfast and lunch will be served at the community center. There is no set meal price, but donations are appreciated. Raffle tickets will be available until noon for a chance to win a floral quilt made by Dawn Patton; proceeds go for a community sign board. The winning ticket will be selected at 1 p.m. Three musical groups will perform in the theater in the afternoon: the Grayson County High School and Independence Middle School singers will perform Christmas carols at 1:30 p.m.; Phillip and Amy Vaughan will sing sacred music at 2:15 p.m.; and the Fries Wildcats will present old-time music at 3 p.m. The Fries Christmas Parade is at 6 p.m. on Main street, and you can stay after for warm drinks and cookies. For more information and other upcoming events, visit friesva.com. Carroll County Hillsville will host the annual Christmas Celebration and Parade on Dec. 4, with the theme “Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!” The celebration will begin at 5 p.m. on Main Street, where Santa will be visiting with children in front of the historic Carter Home. The first 300 children will receive a stocking with Christmas tokens inside at Town Hall, courtesy of the Town of Hillsville. Children are encouraged to bring their own stockings that can be stuffed with goodies provided by several businesses and churches. S’mores will be provided by Carroll County, as well. Main Street will be closed to traffic so you can stroll the lighted streets and take in the sights and sounds of the holiday season. The town’s tree lighting ceremony will be at 6 p.m. in front of the historic Carroll County Courthouse. The grand marshal for the parade this year will be Don Yonce. Also on hand will be Mayor Gregory Crowder and Town Manager Retta Jackson. The parade will follow at 7 p.m. The Hale-Wilkinson-Carter-Home will host an array of holiday festivities this season to compliment the parade. Christmas carols by The Carroll County Chorus, on the second floor of the house, will begin at 4:30 p.m., and at 5 p.m. Santa will be on the front porch of Carter Home to hear Christmas lists and take photos. Community art sessions, live music and storytelling are all scheduled throughout the evening between 5-7 p.m., on various floors of the home, with art sessions lasting the entirety of the evening on the first floor gallery. Music with Jennifer Bunn & Friends will be held from 5-5:45 PM on the second floor parlor. From 5:15-6 p.m., interactive arts with Andrea Morrison will be held on the first floor. Visitors can enjoy interactive storytelling for families with Vicky Town from 5:45-6 p.m. From 6-6:45 p.m., there will be music by Stu Shenk & friends on second floor parlor. Story time for children with Rose Spencer will be held from 6:15-6:30 p.m. on the first floor. Christmas memories and objects with Vicky Town will lead up to the parade from 6:45-7 p.m. on the third floor. To close, a raffle will be held inside the art gallery on the first floor. Details for upcoming Christmas tour dates will be announced, as well. The Town of Hillsville is asking local businesses to help light up Main Street again this year during the annual Christmas Window Contest, for a judging to be held on the evening of Dec. 4. Participants have until 4:30 p.m. that day to register for a chance of winning $150 for first place, $100 for second place, and $50 for third place.  Visitors to the town will be able to enjoy Christmas lights throughout the remainder of the holiday season. The contest is sponsored by the Town of Hillsville Beautification Committee. Lawn of Hope, the annual Relay for Life Fundraiser with a touch of Christmas spirit, is back this holiday season for the 4th annual event in Hillsville.  Thirty trees were set up on the grounds of "the big Blue House on Main" for members of the community to “adopt” and decorate, with all proceeds going to the American Cancer Society. The trees will remain lit through Jan. 1, and donations for the campaign will be accepted any time on the house's porch. Volunteers of The Carroll Christmas Fund will meet again this year in Hillsville to sort and pack food boxes, providing hundreds of children in the Twin County community with necessities and toys for Christmas. The holiday charity is in full swing for those who wish to donate. Participants can mail or drop off donations to the Dawn Auction Company office at 235 West Stuart Drive in Hillsville. Monetary gifts, canned non-perishable food, or new unwrapped toys are accepted. The Carroll Christmas Fund operates solely through donations from local churches, civic organizations, law enforcement, emergency services agencies, schools and community members. Sorting night is scheduled for Dec. 14 at 6 p.m. at Virginia Produce, located at 227 Industrial Park Drive in Hillsville. Item delivery is scheduled for Dec. 18 starting at 8 a.m., also at Virginia Produce, where community leaders and volunteers – including members from local fire and police departments – will help with the delivery process. CommentAdd new comment Read and share your thoughts on this story Ad Gallery News Business Courts Education Public Safety Sports High School Community Sports Sport Shorts Scoreboard Golf Outdoors Racing Opinion Columns Letters Hotline Features Music & Arts Travel Family Religion Club News Community News Milestones TV Listings More Content Blogs Obituaries Calendar Classified Employment Farm & Garden Legals Merchandise Pets Real Estate Services Vehicles About Us Subscribe Newspaper In Education Home Get the paper Create/manage your profile Refund Policy Privacy policy, terms and conditions About Us NIE Copyright © 2021 The Galax Gazette is your source for local news, sports, events and information in Galax, Grayson, Carroll, and surrounding areas.