Skip to main content site-logo FEATURED BREAKING PITTSYLVANIA COUNTY Facing possible $20,000 price tag, Pittsylvania County sales-tax vote recount request withdrawn John Crane Dec 6, 2021 Updated 3 hrs ago  0 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save The group behind the defeated referendum to increase the sales tax for school projects in Pittsylvania County withdrew its request Friday for a recount of the vote.  Pittsylvanians for a Brighter Future decided to rescind its request after finding out it would have to pay the costs of the recount if the results were not in the group's favor.  The recount's price tag would have been about $20,000.  Martha Walker Martha Walker "Because of the cost that would be charged to the petitioner should the recount not be in the petitioner's favor, we felt it was in the best interest not to proceed," said Martha Walker, the group's chair.  Pittsylvanians for a Brighter Future was formed to support the sales-tax hike. Seventy-five voters signed the petition for the recount, which was filed with the Pittsylvania County Clerk of Court on Nov. 12.  Mark Jones Jones Jones But on Nov. 17, Pittsylvania County Schools Superintendent Mark Jones was informed that state law required petitioners to pay recount costs if does not identify enough "yes" votes, according to a report from Walker.  The withdrawal request was submitted Nov. 17. At a hearing the next day, the judge required the group to get a signed affidavit from each petition signer agreeing to the withdrawal. After getting the signed affidavits, Walker said, the group returned to court Friday morning so the judge could approve the petition's withdrawal.   "The director of elections indicated that the cost would be over $20,000, and she understood the judge would require the petitioners to pay the costs," Walker wrote in the report. "The petition was not from Pittsylvania County but from 75 voters who were unaware of this 2020 change to the code of Virginia. Therefore, this was unexpected and alarming." If the group had prevailed following the recount, then the county would have picked up the cost, Jones said.  Support Local Journalism Your subscription makes our reporting possible. The Pittsylvania County School Board voted unanimously Nov. 9 to seek a recount after a 1% sales-tax measure to improve facilities failed by 23 votes on Nov. 2. Members also approved an investigation to explore what other options are available including seeing if the referendum could be put on the ballot another year. County voters rejected the idea of imposing a new tax by the razor-thin margin — 12,751 to 12,728. The tax would have generated about $3.3 million per year to pay for upgrades to aging school buildings. To try to find answers as to why the sales-tax question was defeated, a survey was posed to Pittsylvania County residents to determine why so many — 50% — were against it. Of 97 responses received shortly after the election, the majority said they believe the no vote was driven because residents simply didn’t want another tax. Others didn’t fully understand how other school funding was being used. A trust factor with the governing school board was the third top reason given for the rejection. Besides an official recount, school administration officials have talked with the Virginia Board of Elections and local delegates to see if it’s possible to put the measure before the public again. The local delegates are looking into what can be done. "That is our hope," Walker said Monday. "We're working with our legislative delegation and the board of supervisors to request that it be placed on the 2022 ballot."  Jones was hopeful that the referendum would come out in the group's favor next time.  "We feel very good that it will pass," he said. "This committee feels that it will pass."  The General Assembly passed a measure to allow localities to impose a 1% sales tax if it won support of voters. The money generated from the tax can only be used for school construction. According to state law, a vote difference of 50 votes or less or not more than 1% — whichever is greater — on a question qualifies that result for a recount. A petition for a recount must be filed with the circuit court within 10 days of the vote results being certified by the state or local electoral board, according to state law. A vote recount was held in Pittsylvania County just four years ago when Ben Farmer defeated Barbara Hancock by just 14 votes in the race for the Callands-Gretna seat on the Pittsylvania County Board of Supervisors. Tags Recount Vote Politics Law Institutes Public And Administrative Law Pittsylvania County School Board Petition Martha Walker Bob Warren School System Commerce Mark Jones Official Cost Sales Tax Parliament Tax Voter Watch Now: Related Video Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined' Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined' Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox! Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. John Crane Author email Most Popular In Pittsylvania County, property values jump 20%. But that doesn't mean higher taxes will follow. GOVT. AND POLITICS In Pittsylvania County, property values jump 20%. But that doesn't mean higher taxes will follow. Dec 1, 2021 On Nov. 19, the county sent notices to all property owners following a reassessment process that spanned more than a year.  More money flying to Danville Regional Airport GOVT. AND POLITICS More money flying to Danville Regional Airport Dec 4, 2021 Danville Regional Airport is getting another infusion of money — $1.48 million courtesy of the infrastructure deal — as the facility works on … Coming full circle, Danville's Green Street Police Precinct transforms into youth community center GOVT. AND POLITICS Coming full circle, Danville's Green Street Police Precinct transforms into youth community center Dec 2, 2021 Ashtyn Foddrell had a dream, and Wednesday night it came true when the ribbon was cut on the Peace Community Center at 827 Green St. Danville treasury staff to help residents find missing money GOVT. AND POLITICS Danville treasury staff to help residents find missing money Nov 22, 2021 The city of Danville treasurer’s office announced this week it will be hosting a virtual call event with the Virginia Department of the Treasu… Economic growth eats up room in Dan River Region industrial parks GOVT. AND POLITICS Economic growth eats up room in Dan River Region industrial parks Nov 20, 2021 Local officials are looking to solve the issue by constructing more buildings and grading pads in those parks.  Solar ordnance changes address years of complaints from Pittsylvania County residents GOVT. AND POLITICS Solar ordnance changes address years of complaints from Pittsylvania County residents Nov 19, 2021 Over the years, the overriding complaint centers on optics. Basically, residents don't want to look out their back door to see row upon row of solar panels. After support from community, Pittsylvania County, rescue group looks to Franklin County to reach fundraising goal GOVT. AND POLITICS After support from community, Pittsylvania County, rescue group looks to Franklin County to reach fundraising goal Nov 19, 2021 While Cool Branch Fire and Rescue Departments are located just over the county line in Pittsylvania County, a large portion of their calls for service come from Franklin County.  Pittsylvania County school officials will likely seek recount of sales-tax vote GOVT. AND POLITICS Pittsylvania County school officials will likely seek recount of sales-tax vote Nov 9, 2021 Pittsylvania County School Superintendent Mark Jones told the Danville Register & Bee he would take the proposal for petitioning for a recount to the school board. site-logo      Sites & Partners Place an Ad Email Newsletters Carrier Application Join Our Team Public Notices Services Subscribe Manage Subscription Contact Us Photo Submissions Carrier Login © Copyright 2021 godanriver.com, 700 Monument St. Danville, VA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Welcome to godanriver.com Allow ads or subscribe to support local journalism. You are seeing this message because an ad blocker is in use. Please allow ads on this site or start a subscription to keep reading. Allow ads on godanriver.com Subscribe Already a subscriber?