Search Home News Sports Business Entertainment Opinion Obituaries Services e-Edition Subscribe Contact Us My Account Back to WVNews Exponent Telegram State Journal Preston News & Journal Fairmont News Weston Democrat BlueGoldNews.com NCWV Life Bridgeport News Garrett Republican Morgantown News Toggle navigation Toggle navigation site-logo Next Up NEXT UP West Virginia hunters harvest nearly 700 turkeys during 2021 season	 West Virginia hunters harvest nearly 700 turkeys during 2021… CHARLESTON, W.Va. (WV News) — Hunters in West Virginia harve… TOP STORY West Virginia-based OraCare wins Best of Class award for dental rinse product From Staff Reports 1 hr ago  0   1 min to read OraCare OraCare, a two-step professional dental rinse made by a West Virginia-based company, was recently named Best of Class award winner. Submitted photo Facebook Twitter Email Print Save BRIDGEPORT, W.Va. (WV News) — OraCare, a professional dental rinse, was recently named Best of Class award winner. The rinse is made by the company of the same name, which is headquartered in Bridgeport. This award is considered the Oscars of dentistry, according to a release from the company. Tens of thousands of hygiene products were evaluated by an expert panel of industry leaders and educators in a rigorous voting process. OraCare was the only rinse selected among the 21 winners. This is especially significant in the award's inaugural year, as the hygiene panel voted on essential products they felt were key to successful dental health, according to the release. “We are beyond honored to have been chosen for dentistry's most prestigious award,” said OraCare CEO Dr. Robert Martino. “And we’re especially excited about being the inaugural winners because we were up against every dental hygiene product ever made.” OraCare uses a unique two-step system which utilizes activated chlorine dioxide and has the ability to kill oral pathogens such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, neutralize VSC’s and breaks up biofilm (dental plaque) as well as help alleviate the oral side effects brought on by chemo and radiation treatment for cancer patients, according to the release. Dr. Martino owns and operates seven dental practices in West Virginia, presiding as CEO of Wilmar Management Company. He authored “You Don’t Know What You Don’t Know”, a guide for the new dental school graduate. He is also a founder and CEO of EASW, a worldwide aeronautics company located in Bridgeport, WV. In 2013, Dr. Martino founded Freedom Day USA, a national thank-you movement that has given over $35 million in free services to active military, veterans and their immediate family members. His most recent charitable movement “OraCare Cares” has donated OraCare’s mouth rinse to thousands of cancer patients across the country to help with the oral side effects of treatment. You must be logged in to react. Click any reaction to login. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Ads are being blocked by your browser. Please disable your ad blocker, whitelist our site, or purchase a subscription Tags Oracare Cares Robert Martino Medicine Orthodontics Company Economics Oncology West Virginia Movement Side Effect Rinse Treatment Recommended for you West Virginia University sees no incident Monday after concerning letter received over weekend WV NEWS West Virginia University sees no incident Monday after concerning letter received over weekend  +4Last-play touchdown ends Campbell's lengthy victory drought PRO SPORTS Last-play touchdown ends Campbell's lengthy victory drought Non-league Chesterfield drawn to play Chelsea in FA Cup PRO SPORTS Non-league Chesterfield drawn to play Chelsea in FA Cup  +2Montana seeks to lift protections for bears around Glacier NATIONAL POLITICS Montana seeks to lift protections for bears around Glacier  (0) comments Welcome to the discussion. Latest News Judge issues bench warrant for 19-year-old Clarksburg, West Virginia, malicious assault suspect West Virginia University sees no incident Monday after concerning letter received over weekend West Virginia-based OraCare wins Best of Class award for dental rinse product West Virginia hunters harvest nearly 700 turkeys during 2021 season Cruise ship with COVID-19 infections has new passengers Report: West Virginia paid $83 million in fraudulent unemployment benefits during pandemic Bridgeport (West Virginia) City Council holds annual strategic planning meeting West Virginia governor, DNR announce third annual Hunting & Fishing License Giveaway EXPLAINER: What is the revived US policy on Mexico border? 80 years later: West Virginians reflect on importance of remembering events at Pearl Harbor British woman testifies about grooming by Ghislaine Maxwell West Virginia State Senate GOP backs WVU President Gee prior to "no confidence" vote by Faculty Senate Gov. Justice orders flags to half-staff immediately in honor of Bob Dole, Pearl Harbor remembrance Prosecutor criticizes school over run-up to mass shooting Jussie Smollett trial resumes, unclear if he will testify Site Search Search...   Pay Print Bill Pay Advertising Bill Advertise with Us Manage Subscription Promote Your Event Services About Us Contact Us Rack Locations Media Kit Subscription Services Submission Forms Add Search Toolbar Contact Us WV News 324 Hewes Avenue PO Box 2000 Clarksburg, WV 26301 Phone: 1-800-982-6034 Email: support@wvnews.com © Copyright 2021 WVNews.com, 324 Hewes Avenue PO Box 2000 Clarksburg, WV | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Independent Voice of West Virginia 