The student news organization of Marshall University Menu LIFENEWS Fire Destroys Garage, Apartment Conner Woodruff, Reporter|December 1, 2021 Fire+Destroys+Garage%2C+Apartment An auto repair shop and other structures near Marshall’s Campus were destroyed in an accidental fire on Wednesday the 24th of November.   The fire started in the inside of 3rd Avenue’s Wooten’s Garage; the blaze was caused by the ignition of gas vapors during a vehicle’s fuel system repair.  The fire spread from Wooten’s Garage to another business and the neighboring apartment building, destroying the apartment and 6 cars on the block of 14th Street and 3rd Avenue.  The Huntington Fire Department was sent to the structure around 3:39 p.m. and extinguished the fire with the help of additional units sent to combat the fire’s large size.   The mechanics inside the garage and residents within the apartment building at the time of the fire escaped unharmed.  Future plans for the destroyed property have been directed to the owner of Wooten’s Garage. Due to the accidental nature of the fire, there shall be no city involvement or charges pressed.    “Because this fire was ruled an accident by the Fire Marshal’s Office, there are no criminal charges that will be filed against anyone,” Bryan Chambers, city of Huntington Communications Director, said. “The City of Huntington would have no involvement in any civil matters that would arise from the incident.”  The apartment residents escaped unharmed thanks to the actions of retired Huntington firefighter, Dickie Anderson. The Fire Marshal’s Office revealed that Anderson had warned the people inside the apartment building about the fire after seeing the blaze from a nearby restaurant.  Leave a Comment LIFE My Time is up: A farewell by Xena Bunton My Time is up: A farewell by Xena Bunton Marshall Prom Postponed The Marshall University Prom that was scheduled for Dec. 4 at 6 p.m. has been postponed until the spring semester.  According to Sara-Frances Lyon... SGA Passes Resolution Regarding Pedestrian Safety The Student Government Association unanimously passed a resolution on Nov. 16 to support making the roads around Marshall University’s campus safer ... Brad D. Smith Talks with Students About University Improvements Brad D. Smith, Marshall’s president-elect, held a “listening tour” in the Shawkey Dining Room at the Memorial Student Center at 10 a.... NEWS Marshall Basketball Comes Up Short Against Hoosiers Marshall’s men’s basketball team traveled to Indiana on Saturday to face off against the 5-0 Indiana Hoosiers. Indiana, a perennial p... Marshall Prom Postponed The Marshall University Prom that was scheduled for Dec. 4 at 6 p.m. has been postponed until the spring semester.  According to Sara-Frances Lyon... SGA Passes Resolution Regarding Pedestrian Safety The Student Government Association unanimously passed a resolution on Nov. 16 to support making the roads around Marshall University’s campus safer ... Brad D. Smith Talks with Students About University Improvements Brad D. Smith, Marshall’s president-elect, held a “listening tour” in the Shawkey Dining Room at the Memorial Student Center at 10 a.... © 2021 • Advertise • FLEX WordPress Theme by SNO • Log in Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email Print Comments (0) Share your thoughts... All The Parthenon Picks Reader Picks Sort: Newest