WEIRTON DAILY TIMES × NEWS SPORTS LIFE OBITUARIES OPINION CLASSIFIEDS JOBS PLACE NOTICE SUBSCRIBE homepage logo December 06, 2021 | Today's Paper | Submit News | Subscribe Today | ... Youth played a key role in Follansbee’s lighting LOCAL NEWS DEC 6, 2021 WARREN SCOTT Staff writer wscott@heraldstaronline.com   FESTIVE SPIRIT — The Brooke Middle School Band performed Christmas music as they marched into the Ray Stoaks Plaza Saturday for an expanded version of Follansbee’s annual Christmas lighting ceremony. -- Warren Scott FOLLANSBEE — The lighting of the city’s Christmas display at the Ray Stoaks Plaza was expanded this year, with youth playing a big part in the new festivities. A group of volunteers led by Robin McIntosh recruited children at Brooke Primary North and Brooke Intermediate North and the Brooke Middle School Band to participate in a small parade along a handful of city streets on Saturday afternoon. The youths were accompanied by members of the Follansbee Fire Department in a vintage fire truck and Santa and Mrs. Claus, who remained at the plaza to meet with all children. Also on hand were art students from Brooke High School who painted Christmas trees and other holiday symbols on faces and other students and volunteers who assisted children in creating holiday-themed crafts as well as a handful of food and other vendors. McIntosh said the goal was to involve more community members in the annual event, which also has included the singing of Christmas carols. And it drew not only residents of Follansbee but also from neighboring communities. Roberta Figueroa of Weirton said she came to see her daughter perform in the Brooke Middle School band. “It’s nice that we have things to do again. The kids (in the band) were really excited and decorating their instruments for the parade. They enjoyed it,” she said. Attending brought back for her a memory of attending a Christmas parade in Steubenville when it was heavily snowing and her father lifting her onto his shoulders to watch. “I guess holiday parades have been a tradition for our family,” said Figueroa. She had moved to New York, she said, but returned to the Ohio Valley because she wanted her daughter to grow up in a small town, as she did. Alicia Taylor of Beech Bottom — who attended with her children, Chloe and Jase — said of the event, “This was nice and a nice day for it.” Asked her favorite part of Christmas in the Ohio Valley, she said, “Just spending time with family because our family is here.” NEWSLETTER Today's breaking news and more in your inbox EMAIL ADDRESS I'm interested in (please check all that apply) Daily NewsletterBreaking NewsObituaries Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? * YesNo COMMENTS LOCAL NEWS Steubenville parade ushers in holidays Fauci: Early omicron reports encouraging (AP) - U.S. health officials said Sunday that while the omicron variant of the coronavirus is rapidly spreading ... Pandemic unemployment compensation fraud report released “Cash Mob” at Sweet Temptations Pastry Shop Nutcracker display at fort remains a concern STEUBENVILLE — The rift between the Nelson family, creators of the Steubenville Nutcracker Village display, and ... Federal judge says transgender student-athlete case can advance CHARLESTON – An effort by state and county education and athletic officials to get themselves removed from a case ... MOST READ Steubenville parade ushers in holidays Youth played a key role in Follansbee’s lighting Janie Kmatz Anthony W. Little and Rebecca Thompson Police reports Deborah Firm NEWSLETTER Today's breaking news and more in your inbox EMAIL ADDRESS I'm interested in (please check all that apply) Daily NewsletterBreaking NewsObituaries Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? * YesNo homepage logo twitter iconfacebook icon NEWS Local News Obituaries Community Business SPORTS Local Sports Sports Columns MTR Results LIFE Local Columns Engagements Weddings Anniversaries OPINION Editorials Letters to the Editor CONTACT Submit News Subscribe Advertise Contact Us Copyright © Weirton Daily Times | https://www.weirtondailytimes.com | 114 Lee Ave., Weirton, WV 26062 | 304-748-0606 | Ogden Newspapers | The Nutting Company