‘Here we go again’: Exhausted Bay Area nurses brace for omicron’s arrival
Photo of Nanette Asimov
Nanette Asimov
Dec. 2, 2021
Updated: Dec. 2, 2021 2:32 p.m.
Comments
3
Mawata Kamara, at San Leandro Hospital in San Leandro, where she is an emergency room nurse. ‘We’re praying for the COVID vaccine for our babies,’ she said after the omicron variant of the coronavirus showed up in San Francisco on Dec. 1, its first U.S. appearance.
1
of
3
Mawata Kamara, at San Leandro Hospital in San Leandro, where she is an emergency room nurse. ‘We’re praying for the COVID vaccine for our babies,’ she said after the omicron variant of the coronavirus showed up in San Francisco on Dec. 1, its first U.S. appearance.

Paul Chinn/The Chronicle


After nearly two grueling years battling the coronavirus, Bay Area nurses reacted with a mix of dread and determination to the news that the omicron variant has emerged not just in the U.S., but on their home turf, in San Francisco.

“It’s stressful, but I’m not going to let it affect me like COVID did before,” said Kristin Cox, an acute care nurse at UCSF’s Mt. Zion campus, where she and her exhausted colleagues have worked nonstop for most of the pandemic.

“I was at my wit’s end” during the summer surge, she said. “Our physical and mental health suffered so much that we’re just not going to do that again.”

Most of her colleagues feel the same way, Cox said. So, despite omicron, when the snow shows up in the mountains, “I’m wearing a mask and going to the ski resort. That’s all we talk about.” Until then, it’s mountain biking, she said. Time off will be time off.

Yet some healthcare workers with children too young to be vaccinated say the uncertainty around omicron is frankly terrifying. No one knows yet how infectious the variant will prove to be, or to what extent it might elude vaccine protection. On Thursday, South African health officials announced that prior COVID infection does not appear to confer protection against omicron.

More for you
‘We're in a better spot’ — why Bay Area can be thankful in COVID-19 pandemic

‘Sometimes I get home and I just sob’: In Bay Area COVID wards, doctors battle delta, and fatigue

“It could potentially be just as deadly as the delta, (variant), so I’ll do whatever I can to protect my kids,” said Mawata Kamara, an emergency room nurse at San Leandro Hospital who has two daughters, aged 6 years and 6 months. Her older child is vaccinated. Her infant, of course, is not.

“We’re praying for the COVID vaccine for our babies,” Kamara said. Meanwhile, at home, “we’re back to square one. We’re competely back in shutdown mode.”

The vast majority of very sick COVID patients are unvaccinated. Across California, just two vaccinated people per million residents were hospitalized for COVID last month, compared with 20.5 per million unvaccinated people, state health officials reported. People who are vaccinated and end up in the hospital tend to have other severe underlying illnesses, such as cancer, nurses said.

Public health officials have revealed little about the San Francisco resident who was the first person discovered in the U.S. infected with the variant. But they said the person, who had recently returned from South Africa, where omicron first emerged, had mild symptoms, was not hospitalized, and was fully vaccinated but had not had a booster shot. A Minnesota man with the variant was identified Thursday. Also vaccinated, the man had mild symptoms.

Roland Pabalate, a critical care nurse in Mountain View, has been grateful for the lull in COVID-19 cases that the vaccine brought this fall. He’s relieved not just on behalf of patients, but also for his back: It’s often his job to turn over sedated patients twice a day, many of whom are quite heavy, he said.

“I’m not OK with this new variant coming here,” Pabalate said. “I’m saying to myself: Here we go again.”

He and others are dreading the possibility that the variant — on top of a possible new holiday surge spurred on by unvaccinated people — will again flood hospitals with COVID patients.

“I’m feeling apprehensive about the new variant. Everybody’s had enough of the COVID,” said Larry Ngiraswei, an ICU nurse at Regional Medical Center of San Jose, adding that he is praying that omicron won’t spread far and wide.

People who get badly ill would suffer the most, he said.

“You can see the fear in the patients’ eyes,” Ngiraswei said. “They know what’s waiting for them down the road. A lot of times, the treatments are unsuccessful.”

But nurses suffer, too. What they experience emotionally when working with COVID patients can linger long after their shift ends for the day.

“There are nights when I go home and can’t sleep,” he said. He wasn’t the only one.

The pandemic has also led many health care workers to place additional restrictions on their own lives because of their hazardous jobs. Ngiraswei, for example, desperately wants to visit his family in his native Palau but hasn’t allowed himself to go.

In mid-November, the weekly average of people hospitalized with COVID-19 across the country was about 5,400, up 5.4% compared to early November. The disease has killed more than 764,000 people in the U.S.

Even so, nurses say that what they’ve learned since the pandemic arrived in early 2020 should ease whatever lies ahead, at least somewhat.

Pabalate pointed out that hospitals now rarely have a shortage of personal protective equipment, which had plagued many of them in the early days of the pandemic. Nor do nurses have a shortage of practice caring for people with this illness, as was true in the beginning.

What’s more, COVID patients have more treatment options than earlier in the pandemic, including infusions of monoclonal antibodies, and the first COVID-19 antiviral pill, Merck’s molnupiravir, which is awaiting full federal approval for high-risk adults.

“If this variant is more contagious and makes people sicker, Pabalate said, “as a nurse, I feel like we’re more prepared.”