
Planning commission to take more active role in economic development
Rick Stillion
The Daily Jeffersonian








Norm Blanchard
The Guernsey County Planning Commission is seeking ways to be more active in local economic development and will begin focusing on issues facing the county at its next meeting in February.

"Sometimes it feels like the planning commission is just meeting to meet,"  Chairman Norm Blanchard said at last week's meeting following the Cambridge-Guernsey County Community Improvement Corporation meeting. "I really believe a planning commission should plan."

Blanchard said he would like to see the board facilitate more discussions regarding economic development and establish a fund to assist with such efforts in the county.

"The bottom line is in a planning situation, you put your money where your mouth is, so to speak," said Blanchard. "Money is limited, but money is everything. Should we take a look at holding money back (for projects).

"And, shouldn't we be really planning? Maybe the results of some of the meetings that happen behind closed doors should be talked about here,"  Blanchard added.

"Maybe that's what this planning commission is for as we talk about ideas like that that we can take back our other organizations," added Ron Gombeda regarding establishing a fund to address issues.

Gombeda also suggested the board explore the possibility of contacting investors to assist with funding issues.

Guernsey County Engineer and board member Paul Sherry suggested the Planning Commission also look at things for a longer term and not try to pursue every project that comes along.

"I believe the tool that the planning commission can have is vetting out in a certain direction for a longer term," said Sherry. "If we keep looking for the next new, great thing every time and never settle on one, well that's why we are never going to make any progress. We have to say let's commit to doing this and stay on one thing for a while because it takes a while."

Board members agreed they need to learn more about issues facing local government and private industry including individuals regarding their development plans.

"I want this group to be functional," said Blanchard. "... that we present those types of things quarterly, so that we all know there is an issue out there we are dealing with. There is expertise among our board."

As a result, Sherry will update board members regarding issues, including water and sewer, facing the county at the next meeting. Byesville Mayor Jay Jackson also agreed to provide an update regarding issues in the village.

Blanchard also will purse an update from Cambridge officials for the next meeting.

Board members praised the current working relationship among local government and agencies, and expressed a believe they can work together to resolve such issues.

"I agree, you have to start somewhere and a lot of these conversations through the years have always taken place and we talk about it, but it goes by the wayside," said Jackson.

"Some of them are are not comfortable conversations, but you have to have them. For growth, you are going to have to and at the end of the day we are all here to move this process forward. You have to grow what you got. We have never been in a better place in the history of this county."

In other business, board members voted unanimously to retain this year's officers for 2022.

The current slate of officers includes Blanchard serving as chairman, Regis Woods as vice chairman, Ron Gombeda as secretary and Nancy Green as recording secretary.

The next joint meeting of the Planning Commission and CIC is slated for Feb. 4.


