
Remembering those who died: annual Hospice Memorial Christmas trees return
Bryce Buyakie
The Daily Record








An ornament memorializing a loved one at the Wayne County Public Library.
WOOSTER – A moderately sized Christmas tree stands on the second floor of the Wayne County Public Library.

At first glance, it might look like a normal tree, decorated with ornaments and lights. Upon further inspection, those ornaments are paper, with inked writing on each. 

"Philip Jewell," read a green paper ornament toward the top of the tree. "I love you dad." 

Weather:Final leaf collections planned in Wooster as residents rush to rake leaves

This was one of nearly two dozen paper cutouts with names and sentiments that dotted the tree. Each was written to memorialize someone who died. 

While this tree was noticeably missing last year due to the pandemic, Ohio’s Hospice LifeCare brought back its Memorial Christmas trees in Wayne and Holmes counties through its Pathways of Hope.

"It allows family members, as they write on the ornament, to publicly and even physically remember their loved one and connect with their loved one," said David Hargrave, a bereavement counseling professional at Hospice. 

What to expect 
The Wooster Memorial Christmas tree at the Wayne County Public Library. Anyone can write on an ornament to memorialize a loved who has died.
The holidays can be especially taxing for those whose loved ones have died, Hargrave said. This provides an avenue to honor those who have died. 

Memorial Christmas trees are located at the Wayne County Public Library, the Orrville Public Library and the Millersburg Public Library and will remain up through Dec. 31. 

Anyone also can write the names of those who have died in a three-ring binder next to each tree to have their name printed in the Daily Record on Christmas Eve. The binders will be collected on Monday, Dec. 6 at noon.

As with most years, the ornaments are paper cutouts that can be found in a box next to the tree. 

Labor shortage:Substitute teachers wanted: How a new bill is helping Ohio schools fill worker shortages

Despite the memorial trees coming back after a year off, Ashland County will be without a tree for a second year.

"There were just a few more hurdles to overcome," Hargrave said. "I think people like the idea, but there was a little more hesitancy with that I think"

Anyone from Ashland or other neighboring counties can visit any of the three locations and add an ornament. 

Cumulative loss
For Hargrave, the last year and six months were full of loss. 

While he deals with loss on a near-daily basis as a bereavement counselor, he recognized that nearly 5.2 million have died from COVID-19 on top of those who died from other causes. 

There is also the loss of the pre-pandemic day-to-day life, which had its own consequences, he said. 

"All of the losses that we've experienced, we feel the weight of those," Hargrave said. 

For some, it might be too emotional to talk about a loved one who died with others during the holidays. The weight can be too much.

Hargrave proposes an alternative for those individuals – write a name and a few words on an ornament.

To learn more about the Memorial Christmas trees, visit the Pathways of Hope Grief Counseling Center at Hospice website.

Reach Bryce by email at bbuyakie@gannett.com

On Twitter: @Bryce_Buyakie


