Login
News
Puzzles & Comics
Sports
Opinion
Community
Obituaries
Celebrations
Classifieds
E-Paper
App
Public Notices
Contact Us
Subscribe
Shop
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Jefferson celebrates holiday season with parade	
Jefferson celebrates holiday season with parade
JEFFERSON — Kyler French, 6, waited patiently for the candy …

FEATURED
Scouts celebrate Peace Light in Orwell
By WARREN DILLAWAY warren@starbeacon.com 17 hrs ago 
1 of 6






    
ORWELL — A Boy Scout Pack 72 tradition continued on Saturday evening at St. Mary’s Hall as Scouts lit candles to share with friends and family to promote peace on earth.

The Peace Light North America project has been a labor of love for Mark Lewandoski, who has organized the event in the village for years. He was formerly the Cub Master for the pack, but is still involved in Scouting and came back to make sure the tradition would continue.

“It [the ceremony] still gets me right here,” Lewandoski said while touching his heart.

The Peace Light From Bethlehem campaign started in 1986 by the Austrian Broadcasting Corporation as an outreach mission for children in need in Austria, and abroad. Since the fall of Communism in many Eastern European countries, a growing cooperation between the Scouting movement and the Peace Light movement grew.

Every year, a child from Upper Austria goes to Bethlehem to obtain the flame from the grotto at the Church of the Nativity. For more than 1,000 years, oil lamps have burned at the site as a remembrance of the birth of Jesus Christ, according to the Peace Light North America website.

The Peace Light was brought to the United States for the first time in 2000 and expanded significantly after the 9/11 attacks on the United States in 2001.

The flame used for the Saturday evening service in Orwell came from an Akron man who has kept the flame burning since 2015, when he received it after it came to the United States from Bethlehem through Austria.

Lewandoski said he chose to use the flame already in the United States because the 2021 flame is only arriving this year on Dec. 11 in New York City. He said he will likely try to meet with Massachusetts resident Brian Duane, who is planning a trip to the Midwest with the new flame.

“He just draws a map and says ‘here is my route,’” he said.

The arrangements to bring the flame to the United States were a bit harder this year because Austria is on lockdown due to COVID-19 concerns, but arrangements were made to allow the flame safe passage.

The ceremony included a video detailing the process that focuses on the importance of peace in the world and photographs of Scouts from around the world participating in the peace candle event.

“We liked it. It was beautiful,” said Marge Hendershott after the ceremony.

Owen Welser, 10, and Zachary Popovich, 9, carried the lanterns from the back of the hall before lighting a candle that was shared allowing everyone to experience the Peace Light event.

Tags
Mark Lewandoski Peace Light North America Project United States Christianity Politics Candle Austria Lantern
TRENDING VIDEO

Warren Dillaway
Warren Dillaway
Author email
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
NEWSPAPER ADS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

OBITUARIES
WAID, Emma  undefined, 1924 - Dec 2, 2021
WAID, Emma undefined, 1924 - Dec 2, 2021
BOAG, James  undefined, 1946 - undefined, 2021
BOAG, James undefined, 1946 - undefined, 2021
BANCROFT, Ronald Mar 25, 1965 - Dec 3, 2021
BANCROFT, Ronald Mar 25, 1965 - Dec 3, 2021
ARVIDSON, Phillip Dec 23, 1936 - Dec 4, 2021
ARVIDSON, Phillip Dec 23, 1936 - Dec 4, 2021
WEISDACK, Robert Jul 27, 1951 - Dec 3, 2021
WEISDACK, Robert Jul 27, 1951 - Dec 3, 2021
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Trial cancelled in rape, aggravated burglary case due to attempt to remove judge
Cherry Valley Township man indicted for aggravated murder in wife's beating
Trial to start on Friday in rape, aggravated burglary case
Gun season in full swing in Ashtabula County  
Former director files civil suit against AMHA
Ashtabula County Court of Common Pleas filings
Person shot in hunting accident
Ashtabula County Grand Jury Indictments
Conneaut working on first phase of dredged material facility
County Budget Commission lowers two school districts' tax millage rates 
STAR BEACON PHOTOS

Click to view all galleries.
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
starbeacon.com
4626 Park Ave.
Ashtabula, OH 44004
Phone: (440) 998-2323
Email: webmaster@starbeacon.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
Add Search Toolbar
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Opinion
Obituaries
Photos
Video Gallery
Community
Homeseeker
Special Sections
Weather

© Copyright 2021 Star Beacon, 4626 Park Ave. Ashtabula, OH | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.