site-logo
  
Search...
Home
News
Opinion
Culture
Local Events
Best of Athens
Local Jobs
Obituaries
Photo Galleries
e-Edition
Classifieds
Local Ads
Local Jobs
Local Services
Toggle navigation
site-logo
FEATURED TOP STORY BREAKING
One member of Bellar family pleads guilty in high-profile child abuse case
From the Timeline: Bellar family child abuse case series
Cole Behrens Athens NEWS Associate Editor Nov 30, 2021 Updated Nov 30, 2021  0
Josiah Bellar
Josiah Bellar pleaded guilty Tuesday to charges of felonious assault and child endangering. Photo provided.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
A member of a family involved in a high-profile sexual abuse case has pleaded guilty to reduced charges, apparently in exchange for testimony against his parents and older brother.

Josiah Bellar, 24, pleaded guilty Tuesday in Athens County Common Pleas Court to felony charges of felonious assault and child endangering.  He is the first of four family members to be convicted in the case that begin last spring.

Serah Bellar, originally of Amesville, went missing in 2020. She resurfaced in late April 2021 with a Facebook post from an account under a fake name. In the since-removed post, she outlined multiple allegations against the Bellar family, including sexual assault. The post stated that she wanted to wait until she was 18 years old to come forward.

The social media post triggered an investigation by the Athens County Prosecutor’s Office and led to charges against four members of the family. Robert, 54, and Deborah Bellar, 49, of Athens, are each charged with engaging in a pattern of corrupt activity, a second-degree felony, and two counts of endangering children, third-degree felonies. Both are being held under $1 million bonds. Josiah Bellar’s brother Jonathan, 27, is charged with gross sexual imposition.

A press release about the plea deal quotes from Serah Bellar’s victim’s statement, calling Bellar “a human piece of garbage,”  according to Athens County First Assistant Prosecutor Meg Saunders.

Josiah Bellar committed abusive acts against two juveniles while he was a juvenile himself and under the supervision of his parents. He was sentenced by Judge Patrick Lang to five years of community control with a four-year underlying prison sentence should he violate the terms of that control — which include that he testify against others facing charges in the case. Beller also must complete residential mental health and substance abuse counseling at Mended Reeds Mental Health, a private rehabilitation clinic in Ironton. Athens County Prosecutor Keller Blackburn said Bellar will remain in the program until he is deemed fit for release.

Serah Bellar said she spoke with the prosecutor’s office as the plea agreement was being negotiated and requested that Josiah not be allowed to interact with her or children from the household, which was incorporated into the agreement.

Josiah Bellar was charged in May with three counts of rape, each first-degree felonies, and two counts of gross sexual imposition, both fourth-degree felonies. The rape incidents are alleged to have occurred between January 2011 and January 2014, April 2015 and April 2016 and April 2008 and April 2016. The gross sexual imposition incidents allegedly took place between April 2008 and April 2016. He entered a not guilty plea in June 2021.

The other members of the family have all pleaded not guilty.

Bellar did not comment on his sentencing. His attorney, Andrew Danderson, said Josiah Bellar’s upbringing was “tragic.”

“I don’t think I’ve ever heard of circumstances in a household that were as tragic as what Mr. Bellar found himself growing up in,” Sanderson said in the release. “I’ve often represented people from challenging backgrounds. I’ve often stood before courts and explained that that’s not an excuse for my client’s behavior but perhaps as an explanation for my client’s behavior. I don’t know if that’s ever been more true than it is (here).”

Sanderson added that Bellar accepts responsibility for his actions and has “begun to talk about things he’s never been able to talk about before.”

“He’s come to a point where he understands his circumstances are a product of his upbringing and that he needs to address those circumstances in a positive way in order to take his life on a different path,” Sanderson said in the release.

Blackburn called the plea deal a major victory for justice.

“This conviction is a continuation of the state’s allegation that the parents failed in their duty to protect their children and allowed them to commit acts of abuse,” Blackburn said. “That failure continued with their alleged obstruction of the investigation at every step.”

Serah Bellar, however, said more is needed to bring justice for her and others who were abused in the Bellar household.

“I wouldn’t really consider it justice,” Serah said. “I don’t think there’s any of them that’s getting the amount of punishment I would give them or the amount of time I would prefer, but I guess you have to go by the legal system even if it is all screwed up.”

Last month, all four cases were transferred from Athens County Court of Common Pleas Judge George McCarthy to Judge Patrick Lang. Trials for Robert and Deborah Bellar are scheduled for March 1. Jonathan Bellar is scheduled for a pretrial on Dec. 7.

Still, she hopes the first guilty plea will inspire others to speak up.

“It’s kind of a relief,” Serah said. “I’m not the only person that was in the household saying something at this point, and I think it may get other people to kind of follow in a line, because they’re like sheep.”

Serah added she would like to see more media attention on the case. She also said problems with her biological family have not been resolved, alleging that a biological sibling has been following members of her adopted family.

Dani Kington contributed to this story.

Trending Recipe Videos


Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
 PreviousNext 
More in Timeline: Bellar family child abuse case (1 of 10)

Jimmy Childs leaves Sheriff’s Office; felony charges reduced to a misdemeanor
Read more
Tags
Charge Josiah Bellar Felony Crime Criminal Law Law Rape Athens County Deborah Bellar Patrick Lang Patrick Langa Robert
In this Series
Timeline: Bellar family child abuse case
Updated Nov 30, 2021 article
One member of Bellar family pleads guilty in high-profile child abuse case
Updated Dec 1, 2021 article
Jimmy Childs leaves Sheriff’s Office; felony charges reduced to a misdemeanor
Updated Dec 1, 2021 article
Josiah Bellar, charged with rape, pleads not guilty
 10 updates
Recommended for you


Pro Football News

Wilson provides some optimism for Jets in loss to Eagles
6 minutes ago
LA Rams finally show adaptability in skid-snapping victory
22 minutes ago

Brady, SB champ Bucs aiming for playoff home-field advantage
28 minutes ago

Browns return from bye refreshed, refocused for home stretch
38 minutes ago

Cardinals' nose for takeaways big reason for 10-2 record
an hour ago

 (0) comments
Welcome to the discussion.
Trending Recipes
Give Me Some Sugga! Fudge Cookies
Just Plain Good Golden Fried Chicken Cutlets
Cream Cheese Sugar Cookies


Story Timelines
In our effort to always give our readers the best, up to date local reporting, we have recently collaborated with Ohio University students to build interactive, constantly updated timelines for stories that are important to you.
One member of Bellar family pleads guilty in high-profile child abuse case
Timeline: Bellar family child abuse case
Hundreds of Athens County kids vaccinated at mass clinics, school after emergency approval
Timeline: COVID-19 vaccination
Stewart, Titsworth cleared of racial discrimination allegations from former professor
Timeline: Kalyango and Ohio University
Edwards breaks silence on historic vote to not expel Householder, arguing it was insignificant
Timeline: State Rep. Jay Edwards and Householder scandal
Ohio University CFO Deborah Shaffer to transition into support role, retire next year
Timeline: Top OU administator accepts bonus amid financial turmoil
site-logo
BlueOwl Digital Solutions
The Athens NEWS and Blue Owl Digital Solutions are divisions of APG Media of Ohio • Michigan
  
Sections
News
Opinion
Culture
Local-events
Special Publications
Classifieds
Obituaries
Photo Galleries
e-Edition
Best of Athens
Services
About Us
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Promote Your Event
Submission Forms
Ohio News Media Association:  Hooper Best Website 2019
© Copyright 2021 The Athens NEWS, 9300 Johnson Road Athens, OH | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
