Welcome to the new & improved Addison Independent website. To celebrate, we're offering free access to our entire site for a limited time.
If you're an existing subscriber, click here to create a new password. Enjoy!
Sign up for the Addy Indy eNewsletters
 Addison Independent
  
Search for:
 
NEWS
SPORTS
OP/EDS
SELECT PAGE 
NEWS
CVOEO food program going online
December 2, 2021
By John Flowers
“It’ll be like ordering food through any other curbside grocery programs. In some ways it sounds very basic, but for charitable food, this is a pretty leading-edge type of practice, and I’m excited we’re trying it here in Addison County.”

— food access coordinator Emmet Moseley

MIDDLEBURY — The Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity (CVOEO) will soon launch a new food-access program that will allow qualifying low-income residents to order their provisions — and arrange for delivery or pickup — with a few strokes on their computers or smartphones.

It’s called the Champlain Valley Food Network, a partnership of CVOEO’s food-access centers in Middlebury (Addison Community Action at 54 Creek Road), Burlington and Franklin/Grand Isle.

CVOEO in a few weeks will pilot the network here in Middlebury, initially limiting service to the roughly 50 Addison County families currently enrolled in the federal Head Start Program. Head Start promotes school readiness for infants, toddlers, and preschool children from low-income families.

CVOEO is using federal CARES Act funding to hire a handful of additional staff and to rent 2,500 square feet of the former Vermont Soap headquarters at 616 Exchange St. as a food warehouse, at which network food orders will be received and packaged. After packing a food order, network staff will arrange, with the client, the most convenient pickup location for their food — that could be their physician’s office, local school, or even their home if they have transportation issues.

Organizers stressed the new service is intended to complement — and not supplant — the 54 Creek Road food shelf and other food resources in the county.

Paul Dragon, executive director of CVOEO, explained it’s all about making it as easy as possible for low-income families to get the nourishment they need. The program will also recognize the evolving dietary needs for a diversifying Vermont population.

“This mobility, along with on-demand ordering through our Pantry Soft technology, will allow people to order the food they want and need,” he said. “This will eliminate food waste and allow people to order food that is culturally appropriate.”

Emmet Moseley is CVOEO’s food access coordinator for Addison County and will be playing a lead role in getting the new Champlain Valley Food Network up and running. He acknowledged food assistance has long been available in Addison County, becoming more organized during President Lyndon Johnson’s war on poverty during the mid-1960s. Moseley added the ensuing 50 years have brought new technology that can improve the reach and effectiveness of nutrition programs for those in need.

Qualifying families will be logged into a secure computer network, and they will be able to place orders when they’re running low on food. Their order will be received by network staff at the Exchange Street warehouse, who pack it up and load it into a van for drop-off at the client’s preferred spot.

Think Amazon, on a grassroots scale.

Using the network’s Pantry Soft computer system, clients will be able to click on the image of a food product they’d like to receive, and it will be added to their order.

“It’ll be like ordering food through any other curbside grocery programs,” Moseley said. “In some ways it sounds very basic, but for charitable food, this is a pretty leading-edge type of practice, and I’m excited we’re trying it here in Addison County.”

Moseley said CVOEO has already begun moving food and equipment into its Exchange Street warehouse.

Officials plan to launch the new service later this month for Head Start families, with the intent of expanding its reach to all low-income families in Addison, Chittenden and Franklin/Grand Isle counties within a few months, after having ironed out any wrinkles in the system.

CVOEO officials hope the network is wrinkle-free and popular within two years — because that’s when its CARES Act funding will run out.

Future funding and possible expansion will depend on the success of the network and its success in attracting donations, said Moseley, who’s confident there’s a market. He noted CVOEO recently performed a needs assessment in Addison County, which revealed, among other things, that Addison Community Action’s Creek Road food pantry “isn’t able to serve everybody who might need help. There are barriers for people accessing those programs, which usually include transportation, hours of operation, and a sense of stigma about approaching people in their own community for assistance.”

The Champlain Valley Food Network, Moseley said, is seeking to break down such food-access barriers. It’s doing so by not asking “how do we change an individual food pantry to serve people better?” but rather, “why not try to do something that doesn’t include the food pantry at all, that just takes as a priority how to reach these people who aren’t able to get (to a pantry)?” according to Moseley.

It remains to be seen if the food-insecure will take their grocery errands online.

The Middlebury nonprofit Helping Overcome Poverty’s Effects (HOPE) runs one of the largest food shelves in the region, serving more than 3,000 people annually. In addition to non-perishable foods, HOPE often carries meat, milk, bread and eggs, thanks to the generosity of local bakers and farmers.

In addition, HOPE created its own food access coordinator position almost a decade ago, which has led to what Executive Director Jeanne Montross called “a large and thriving partnership with local farms, and the ability to annually offer tens of thousands of pounds of fresh, locally grown produce to folks who do not have the means to purchase it.”

This food is donated by farms and sometimes gleaned from the fields by volunteers. HOPE delivers gleaned produce to dozens of sites around the county and beyond, where people can get it in their own communities. The organization has also been holding workshops on how to make the healthy produce tastier.

MORE ONLINE FOOD

And HOPE has been getting into the online food arena.

Since early in the pandemic, it’s been offering online and phone options for food orders. HOPE has created a system of eight food delivery routes, using volunteer drivers, which are very popular.

“Considering the recent rise in COVID cases, our elderly and frail clients have greatly appreciated the ability to get food, including food shelf offerings, government commodity food boxes, and our holiday food boxes complete with turkeys and local produce, without having to venture in,” Montross said.

Still, some folks get emotional sustenance from personal interaction that can’t be realized via a phone or computer, according to Montross.

“You could say that it is helpful to have the online or phone order system, however people have really missed the human contact,” she said. “Delivery drivers like to stop and talk for a few minutes with people, to be sure they’re OK. The food is so important, but our work is also about relationships.”

Moseley reiterated that the new food network is intended to work hand-in-hand with other food security measures — including food shelves.

“For some people, (food shelves) are a fantastic support that exist, and we don’t want anyone to change that,” he said. “It’s more of a question of how do we make, as the primary goal, finding the people who aren’t going to those facilities.”

Reporter John Flowers is at johnf@addisonindependent.com.

This article’s tags:
CVOEO, Champlain Valley Food Network, John Flowers, food insecurity
MORE NEWS
NEWS
Historic New Haven depot to travel across farm fields
Plans for relocating the historic New Haven Junction Train Depot have taken an adventurous … (read more)

NEWS
Ferrisburgh news for Dec. 2
The Friends of the Union Meeting Hall will be hosting their second annual Thankful Tree th … (read more)

NEWS

College lauded for 2020 voter turnout
It was about two weeks before the 2020 election when Middlebury College student Isabelle H … (read more)



Read Past Articles by Month
Read Past Articles by Month
Select Month


News Sports Op/Ed Arts & Leisure Obituaries Classifieds Calendar Subscribe Careers
  
Copyright © 2021 Addison County Independent, All Rights Reserved.