

by Lee Em­mons

Come win­ter, af­ter the bears have re­treated to their cold weather dens, many back­yard bird en­thu­si­asts hang feed­ers to at­tract — and nour­ish — avian vis­i­tors. Birds need more than a sup­ple­men­tal food source, how­ever. Whether they are roost­ing, feed­ing, se­lect­ing a nest lo­ca­tion, or fly­ing from one grove of trees to an­other, birds rely on veg­e­ta­tive cover, from the ground level to the tree­tops. Of­fer­ing nat­ural sources of cover can help birds evade preda­tors and find pro­tec­tion from in­clement weather, as well as pro­vide shel­ter dur­ing mi­gra­tion.

While spe­cific re­quire­ments vary by species, all birds are de­pen­dent on the trees and shrubs na­tive to the area in which they live. Non-na­tive plants, which mo­nop­o­lize many gar­dens and yards, may also pro­vide some level of pro­tec­tion. Birds find safety among var­i­ous dif­fer­ent plant lay­ers, and an ar­ray of veg­e­ta­tion types will likely at­tract a di­ver­sity of bird species.

“One of the best ways to help birds is to have cover at each level,” said Matt Tarr, a wildlife spe­cial­ist with the Uni­ver­sity of New Hamp­shire Co­op­er­a­tive Ex­ten­sion.

Dur­ing the spring and sum­mer breed­ing and young-rear­ing sea­son, gray cat­birds and north­ern car­di­nals for­age and nest at the shrub level. In con­trast, taller trees shel­ter Bal­ti­more ori­oles and rose-breasted gros­beaks. Other species, such as wood­peck­ers, tit­mice, and chick­adees, find cover in stand­ing dead trees. Short grassy ar­eas will pro­vide places for north­ern flick­ers and mourn­ing doves to for­age. When left in­tact over the win­ter, these same grassy ar­eas can also pro­vide cover and food for pine siskins, com­mon red­polls, and Amer­i­can goldfinches.

The cover needs of birds also vary by time of day, es­pe­cially dur­ing win­ter. Birds re­quire places to ef­fi­ciently for­age dur­ing day­light hours, said Mr. Tarr. Af­ter snatch­ing a seed from a feeder, a black-capped chick­adee needs a place to safely eat it. Plac­ing feed­ers close to sources of cover — such as bushy shrubs — helps birds con­serve fi­nite en­ergy re­serves. At night, af­ter for­ag­ing has stopped, that same bird needs a warm place to wait out the cold, and Mr. Tarr said conifers pro­vide the best pro­tec­tion on freez­ing nights and rainy days.

Dur­ing fall and spring mi­gra­tion, trav­el­ing song­birds also re­quire se­cure stopover sites. Back­yards with a di­ver­sity of na­tive plants will at­tract a mul­ti­tude of na­tive in­sects, which help feed birds pass­ing through dur­ing spring. In the fall, as war­blers leave the North­east on their way to warmer places, they will seek out fruit-bear­ing na­tive plants. Be­yond pro­vid­ing food, these thick shrubs can also pro­vide shel­ter from preda­tors.

In­creas­ing the amount of nat­ural pro­tec­tion avail­able to the birds in a back­yard will help in­crease the num­ber of species that visit year-round. While plant­ing one or two shrubs can in­crease cover op­tions for birds, Mr. Tarr said, thickly planted trees and shrubs at the edge of a prop­erty will likely be more suc­cess­ful in help­ing to pro­vide shel­ter. This is es­pe­cially true if neigh­bors also of­fer bird-friendly habi­tats, as Mr. Tarr noted that “most birds are us­ing a va­ri­ety of yards to meet their cover and food needs.”

I was re­minded of the im­por­tance of think­ing be­yond the feeder this past win­ter in my at­tempt to at­tract car­di­nals to my yard. I pur­chased a new lantern feeder and stocked it with saf­flower seeds, then placed the feeder on my lawn, a few feet away from sev­eral oth­ers. The feeder at­tracted lit­tle at­ten­tion for the first few days, even from the squir­rels. Sur­mis­ing that an ab­sence of nearby cover was the is­sue, I re­hung the feeder in a tree branch on the cor­ner of my lawn. Al­most im­me­di­ately, black-capped chick­adees and tufted tit­mice be­gan vis­it­ing the saf­flower feeder. I did­n’t see any car­di­nals last win­ter, but I’m hold­ing out hope for this year.

Pro­vid­ing safe places to feed, roost, and nest can help con­serve the bird pop­u­la­tions in the area and in­crease the chances of en­joy­ing a con­sis­tent stream of avian vis­i­tors. Small ac­tions to cre­ate habi­tat, repli­cated by thou­sands of peo­ple, can en­sure a brighter fu­ture for the birds that grace our skies and cap­ture our imag­i­na­tions.

 

Lee Em­mons is a na­ture writer. He lives in New­cas­tle, Maine. The il­lus­tra­tion for this col­umn is by Ade­laide Mur­phy Ty­rol. The Out­side Story is as­signed and edited by North­ern Wood­lands mag­a­zine and spon­sored by the Well­born Ecol­ogy Fund of the New Hamp­shire Char­i­ta­ble Foun­da­tion: www.nhcf.org.
