Prisonfinder.org

Home / Virginia / Loudoun County Adult Detention Center
Loudoun County Adult Detention Center, VA
Loudoun County Adult Detention Center
 703-777-0405

 42035 Loudoun Center Place, Leesburg, VA, 20175

 Website

The Loudoun Adult Detention Center opened its doors back in June of 2007. The facility is in Leesburg, VA.

The Loudoun Adult Detention Center is in the same complex as the Community Custody Program, Administrative Offices, and the Loudoun County Magistrate’s Office. The Loudoun Adult Detention Center uses both podular and direct methods when it comes to supervising inmates.

The Loudoun Adult Detention Center houses inmates from all security levels. These security levels include minimum, medium, and maximum-security levels.

There are cases that inmates may end up in the facility for nearly 3 years before they will be transferred to a prison that is run by the Virginia Department of Corrections.

Many times, an inmate will get a stay of delivery to the Virginia Department of Corrections due to the appeals. If an inmate has a sentence of 12 months or less, they will just serve their time out in the Loudoun Adult Detention Center. However, inmates will be billed a dollar daily per the state code 53.1-131.3. This fee offsets the cost of what it cost to house them in the facility.

Alongside the general population inmates, the detention center also houses inmates that are in the Work Release or Workforce programs. The Work Release program only houses inmates who are non-violent, meaning they are in the minimum-security level. These inmates will typically be released back into the community in a short amount of time. The Work Release building can only house up to 80 inmates at a given time.

Inmates in the Work Release program will be billed $12 per day for staying in this portion of the facility. Inmates who work while they are in the work release program will be permitted to go out there with strict rules and regulations attached to them. The money they produce will help court costs, pay for their fines, support their family, restitution to victims. This also helps ease the burden on taxpayers.

Also housed in the same facility as the Work Release is the Sheriff’s Inmate Work Force. The group of inmates here is also minimum-security, non-violent inmates. These inmates will work throughout the community under the direct supervision of an armed deputy. They will do anything from trash pickup, landscaping, painting, minor construction, and other various tasks.

The inmates will work in the county, town, and state property as well as charitable properties as well. The inmates will be credited anywhere from $5 to $8 an hour. This money will go into paying off their court costs and other miscellaneous fines. Each year, the county and surrounding towns will save thousands of dollars for the work that the inmates perform.

All equipment that is used by the Workforce program including the weeders, mowers, etc. will be purchased using the inmate canteen fund. This canteen fund will not have any tax money, this is fund is only supported by inmates’ purchases.

This Workforce program will also do seasonal work including landscaping, grass cutting, along with snow removal. These activities will otherwise have been contracted to a different company and an added expense to the county.
