Home
News
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Best of Loudoun
ePages
Special Sections
Obituaries
Jobs
Classifieds
Search...
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Lettuce Be Loco set to open this week in Leesburg	
Lettuce Be Loco set to open this week in Leesburg
After months of renovations, a new restaurant concept called…

EDITOR'S PICK
Judge to hear motions on recall of school board chairwoman Jan. 5, sets trial for March 21
By Nathaniel Cline ncline@loudountimes.com 5 hrs ago  1
Brenda Sheridan Supporters
Supporters of Loudoun County School Board Chair Brenda Sheridan gather outside the old courthouse Monday, Dec. 6 in Leesburg ahead of her hearing.

Times-Mirror/Nathaniel Cline
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Loudoun County Circuit Court Judge Jeanette A. Irby on Monday morning scheduled a three-day jury trial for March 21-23 in a case concerning a petition to recall school board chair Brenda Sheridan (Sterling District).

Pre-trial hearings on various motions are scheduled for Jan. 5 and Feb. 23, both at 10 a.m.

As previously reported, Loudoun County Commonwealth’s Attorney Buta Biberaj (D) said her office is seeking the certification of petition signatures against Sheridan amid calls for her removal.

Biberaj is representing The Citizens of the Sterling District, which filed the petition for Sheridan’s removal.

The group, which collected 1,217 signatures, claims that Sheridan committed neglect of duty, misuse of office, and incompetence in the performance of her duties in their petition.

The group has submitted motions to disqualify Biberaj from the case, and have Fight for Schools, a political action committee, added as a plaintiff in the case due to their interest.

Biberaj’s office asked the court to direct the Loudoun County Office of Elections and Voter Registration to certify — as required by Virginia Code — that the signatures affixed on the petitions are those of registered voters residing in the Sterling District and that they make up at least 10% of the votes tallied from the 2019 elections.

Petitions to remove an elected official from office require signatures from district residents equal to at least 10% of the votes cast for that official’s post during the last election, according to Virginia Code.

Loudoun County Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney Barry Zweig, who was in court for Biberaj on Monday, quoted a spokesperson from the Office of Elections as saying officials could have the information in two days pending court’s approval.

Irby directed the office to move forward with the certification.

The filing includes allegations that Sheridan "limited the First Amendment rights of speakers and listeners by shutting down public comment" at board meetings and implementing rules to curb speakers based on their viewpoint.

June 22, 2021 School Board Meeting – Sheridan
Loudoun County School Board Chairwoman Brenda Sheridan (Sterling District) is shown during the June 22 public meeting which was halted several times and ultimately saw the room cleared by deputies.

Times-Mirror/Graham Cullen
In a previous statement, Sheridan countered that she was elected three times by the citizens of the Sterling District and that those who signed the petition represent a fraction of those who voted for her.

Sheridan and her counsel, Julia Judkins and Dawn Boyce, of Bancroft, McGavin, Horvath & Judkins, PC, appeared in court. Additionally, David Warrington, attorney representing the petitioners, was also in court.

As previously reported, Fight for Schools, the political action committee behind the recall efforts, is also seeking the removal of Ian Serotkin of the Blue Ridge District and At-Large member Denise Corbo. Fight For Schools had not filed a petition seeking their removal as of Monday morning.

Vice Chair Attosa Reaser (Algonkian District) is scheduled to be in court on Dec. 14 at 9 a.m. The petition seeking her removal received at least 1,859 signatures, according to a Nov. 9 email to the Times-Mirror.

The late Broad Run District member Leslee King was removed from the group’s recall list after her death at the end of August. King, who was 74, died due to complications from heart surgery.

Barts resigned on Nov. 2, amid Fight for Schools’ effort to recall her from her post. She cited threats against her and her family as the reason for her resignation.

Her case is scheduled for dismissal on Dec. 17 at 10 a.m.

“I would hope anyone in this room, participating in the judicial process would not resort to threats,” Irby said referring to reports of threats against members of the school board. “That’s a terrible thing.”

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
3 remaining of 4
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

School Board Recall Update
- Atoosa Reaser (Algonkian District) returns to court Dec. 14 at 9 a.m.

- Beth Barts (Leesburg District) resigned on Nov. 2, motion for dismissal Dec. 17 10 a.m.

- Brenda Sheridan (Sterling District) motions hearings on Jan. 5 and Feb. 23 at 10 a.m., March 21-23 at 9 a.m.

- Recall efforts continue for Ian Serotkin (Blue Ridge District) and Denise Corbo (At Large)

- Leslee King (Broad Run District) died in August due to complications from heart surgery.

Nathaniel Cline
Nathaniel Cline
Author youtube Author twitter Author email
Thank you for reading!
Please purchase a subscription to read our premium content. If you have a subscription, please log in or sign up for an account on our website to continue.

Choose your news
Sign up for newsletters that bring Loudoun County to your inbox.


Latest Headlines
Get the latest headlines delivered Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings.


Top weekly stories
Catch up Sunday on the top stories of the past week.


Today's weather
Start your day with our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather.


Best of Loudoun Insiders newsletter
Inside news and deals from Loudoun County's favorite businesses and organizations, as chosen by our readers in the annual Best of Loudoun contest.


Local Offers
Receive occasional local offers from our website and our advertisers, including updates and offers from the Best of Loudoun readers choice contest.

Enter email address
Top Loudoun Jobs
Looking to hire in Loudoun? Reach jobseekers in print and online. Email classifieds@loudountimes.com.


Latest e-Edition
Loudoun Times
 Loudoun Times
To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left.
Stocks

Market Data by TradingView
Most Popular
 Articles
Brown: Why White’s Ferry closed
Gable Farm owner found in violation, ordered to level dirt pile
Alexandria man charged with use of threatening language in call to Stone Bridge High School
Loudoun supervisors to consider replacing finance committee chair
Middleburg announces parking restrictions, parking passes sold out for Saturday’s holiday parade
Staffing shortage prompts school board member to volunteer as substitute teacher
Former White’s Ferry owner urges landing owner to find a reasonable proposal to reopen service
Dog Krazy owners gift store to longtime employee
Sheriff's office investigating larcenies, auto theft and burglary in Sterling
Updated: Sheriff's office seeks help locating missing Sterling man

  
Sections
News
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Obituaries
Multimedia
Online Features
Services
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Media Kit
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Calendar
Search
Weather
Contact Information
loudountimes.com
108 Church Street SE
Leesburg, VA 20175
Phone: 703-777-1111
Email: LTMEditor@loudountimes.com
© Copyright 2021 Loudoun Times-Mirror, 108 Church Street SE Leesburg, VA | Terms of Use
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.