Skip to content

SECTIONS

SEARCH
SUBSCRIBE
4 weeks for only 99¢
LOG IN
LEARN MORE ABOUT SUBSCRIPTIONS
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit collapses and dies after a workout
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit collapses and dies after a workout
Christians turn to Advent as time of light and preparation
Christians turn to Advent as time of light and preparation
VA. TECH OFFERS BEAMER $1 MILLION
Police pursuit in Newport News goes eastbound on I-64, then westbound before Portsmouth woman’s eventual arrest
Police pursuit in Newport News goes eastbound on I-64, then westbound before Portsmouth woman’s eventual arrest
Make a Colonial Williamsburg-style wreath for your own home
Bob Dole to lie in state at Capitol as nation honors senator
Bob Dole to lie in state at Capitol as nation honors senator
Pictures: Capt. Nichole Stilwell, Pilot of a T-38 Talon
Pictures: Capt. Nichole Stilwell, Pilot of a T-38 Talon
Soccer tournament honoring late goalkeepers Conner Gweedo, Luke Messick promotes safe driving, funds African children
Soccer tournament honoring late goalkeepers Conner Gweedo, Luke Messick promotes safe driving, funds African children
GRANT EDWARD KEY JR.
Religion column: John Wesley’s three rules for use of money
A year with less Santa Claus and more safety measures: Area Santas don face masks, meet children virtually during pandemic
A year with less Santa Claus and more safety measures: Area Santas don face masks, meet children virtually during pandemic
Huntington Ingalls lost millions because of COVID. So it filed a lawsuit.
Huntington Ingalls lost millions because of COVID. So it filed a lawsuit.
10 things to do around the Historic Triangle to celebrate the holiday season
10 things to do around the Historic Triangle to celebrate the holiday season
Noland Trail celebrates 25 years
Noland Trail celebrates 25 years
VASHTI T. WILLIS, ONE OF THE LAST OF WOMEN'S AUXILIARY CORPS

TIDEWATER REVIEW
Emergency workers in King William relying on neighboring areas for cover amid exhaustion, staff shortages
By DAVID MACAULAY
TIDEWATER REVIEW |
DEC 06, 2021 AT 11:05 AM


Emergency service workers in King William County are facing exhaustion, manpower issues, and are relying on neighboring areas for cover as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic takes its toll, according to the fire chief.

Fire Chief Stacy Reaves detailed the acute pressures the EMS service and local hospitals are under in a report to the King William Board of Supervisors on Nov. 8.

He said while COVID-19 cases are falling in the area, the region is “continuously in Status Black” which requires the Richmond-based VCU Health System to determine ambulance destinations. Status Black involves hospitals deferring non-emergency surgeries due to a shortage of beds. This means EMS services have to call a hotline to access hospitals with available spaces resulting in longer transportation times, Reaves said.

“We have had to call on our neighbors multiple times this past month, King and Queen. We have had to ask West Point to come up in the upper part of the county several times. I know they are part of us but the last choice should be to extend that resource because it leaves the entire town of West Point open,” Reaves told the board.

Although COVID cases are declining, the problems have been exacerbated by the saturation of local hospitals and the shortage of workers in the health care industry, according to Reaves.

“Hospitals are suffering probably worse than we are now … across the board of the emergency services and the emergency hospital departments, we are exhausted,” Reaves said.

“The people who were healthy who were able to come and work they’re getting beat up. … Unfortunately, people seem to be pulling away, for better opportunities, a safer environment and so on and so forth.

“That’s what’s driving the Code Black right now. It’s not that the COVID patients are at their peak. It’s that the peak of COVID patients and all of the other issues we have across the board are wearing everybody out,” he said.

Reaves said applications for seven open positions in the fire and EMS Department are being progressed. Recruits will have to reimburse the county for their training costs if they leave.

The fire chief said the county’s third ambulance is out of service because it would not pass a state inspection.

“Due to the dollar amount of repairs needed, it will remain out of service and unrepaired,” Reaves said in his report to the board. A new ambulance is expected to come into service by the end of the year. Reaves detailed an electrical issue with a second ambulance which was being addressed.

David Macaulay, davidmacaulayva@gmail.com

 King William emergency services COVID-19
LATEST TIDEWATER REVIEW
TIDEWATER REVIEW
Emergency workers in King William relying on neighboring areas for cover amid exhaustion, staff shortages
5h
Emergency workers in King William relying on neighboring areas for cover amid exhaustion, staff shortages
TIDEWATER REVIEW
Unruly behavior during King William School Board meetings leads to 2 attendees being banned from school property
5h
Unruly behavior during King William School Board meetings leads to 2 attendees being banned from school property
MOST READ
NATIONAL SPORTS
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit collapses and dies after a workout
2h
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit collapses and dies after a workout
FAITH & RELIGION
Christians turn to Advent as time of light and preparation
NOV 26, 2016
Christians turn to Advent as time of light and preparation
NEWS
WHAT IF BRITISH HAD WON?
OCT 15, 2006
CONNECT




TRIBUNE PUBLISHING

Chicago Tribune
The Baltimore Sun
Sun Sentinel of Fla.
Hartford Courant
The Daily Meal
New York Daily News
Orlando Sentinel
The Morning Call of Pa.
The Virginian-Pilot
Studio 1847
COMPANY INFO

Careers
Manage Web Notifications
Terms of Service
Contact us
Local print ads
DailyPress.com
About us
Help Center
Archives
Privacy Policy
DP Store
Copyright © 2021, Daily Press


closeTRIAL OFFER
SUPPORT QUALITY NEWS
4 weeks for 99¢
SAVE NOWClose
