Bud Billiken Parade 2019: Map, participants and 90 years of history
By KORI RUMORE
AUG 09, 2019 AT 8:11 AM

1948: Joe Louis
1948: Joe Louis
Joe Louis and his wife riding in the Bud Billiken Parade on Aug. 7, 1948. (Chicago Tribune historical photo)

1 / 14
The Bud Billiken Parade (nicknamed "The Bud") has been a back-to-school celebration and showcase for the city's talented young people since 1929. Some of the celebrities who have participated in the parade have included President Harry Truman, then-U.S. Sen. Barack Obama, James Brown, the Supremes, Muhammad Ali, Chance the Rapper and countless film and television stars. This year's parade theme is "90 Years of Excellence."

As in previous years, a family fair will take place after the parade in Washington Park. It will feature school supply giveaways, games, entertainment and free haircuts and hair braiding for young attendees.

Time and date: 10 a.m., Saturday, Aug. 10 with a family fair to follow the parade.

Location: Washington Park.

Route: The parade begins at King Drive and Pershing Road (39th Street) and continues south on King to 51st Street before pivoting into Washington Park. The route ends at Garfield Boulevard and Ellsworth Drive.


PERSHING

START

90

94

COTTAGE GROVE

43RD

KING

47TH

51ST

GARFIELD

FINISH

Washington

Park

Mile

½


Don Luster, of Brookfield, sits on his 1999 Shadow motorcycle at the Bud Billiken Parade in 2013. (Carolyn Van Houten/Chicago Tribune)
Getting there
Parking: Spaces are limited. Carpooling or public transportation is advised.

Public transportation: The Green Line is your best bet; exit at the 43rd Street, 47th Street or 51st Street stops and walk east toward the route. If you're taking the Red Line, exit at the 47th Street stop. Take the No. 47 bus east and get off at Prairie Avenue; the parade is two blocks east. Details about extra bus and rail service are available on the CTA website.

BACK TO TOP

Women and children try to get the attention of performers during the Bud Billiken Parade in 2018. (Abel Uribe/Chicago Tribune)
Where to watch
Arrive early to find a good spot along the 2-mile parade route. Treats and giveaways will be available in Washington Park following the parade.

Can't be at the parade? Watch it live on WLS-Ch. 7.

BACK TO TOP

Lil Rel Howery, star of the television series "Rel, " poses at the FOX Summer TCA All-Star Party on Aug. 2, 2018, in West Hollywood, Calif. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP)
Grand marshal
Lil Rel Howery: Actor, comedian and Chicago native; has appeared in the Fox sitcom "Rel" and "Get Out."

BACK TO TOP
Honorary marshals
Lori Lightfoot: Chicago mayor

Jesse White: Illinois Secretary of State

BJ The Chicago Kid: Four-time Grammy-nominated artist

Che "Rhymefest" Smith: Chicago hip-hop artist and actor

Anthony and Anton Downing: South Side natives, twin brothers and stars of HGTV pilot, "The Double Down"

Tom Joyner: Radio host and founder, Reach Media

Don Jackson: Chairman and CEO, Central City Productions

Monica Haslip: Founder and executive director, Little Black Pearl

Arthur Robertson: Founder and executive director, South Shore Drill Team

Terisa Griffin: Recording artist

Erika Bracey: Entrepreneur, Butter Kup and Blest Bracelets

Ed Lover: Morning show host, 104.3 WBMX-FM

BACK TO TOP

Members of the Geek Squad Dance group perform at the Bud Billiken Parade in 2018. (Abel Uribe/Chicago Tribune)
Participants
Dozens of bands, dance and drill teams, marching units, local and state politicians, floats and celebrities will travel the 2-mile route through Bronzeville before gathering in Washington Park for a family fair with giveaways including school supplies.

BACK TO TOP

Bud Billiken Parade king and queen in 1970. (Chicago Tribune historical photo)
Royal court
To compete, Chicago-area children completed an essay and a three-minute video on the topic: "How would you rank health, wealth and widom in order of importance and why?"

Based on their answers, Chicago Defender Charities chose the following children for the royal court:

King: Cayen Martin, 14 (Dyett School for the Arts)
Queen: India Culpepper, 14 (Chicago High School for the Arts)
Crown prince: George Spiceson, 14 (Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School)
Crown princess: Destinee Lane, 13 (James Hart School)
Prince of the royal court: Anderson Hayes, 10 (Andrew Jackson Language Arts Academy)
Princess of the royal court: Sheridan Steele, 11 (Prescott Elementary School)
BACK TO TOP
Parade origins
The Chicago Defender was founded in 1905 by Robert Sengstacke Abbott.

In 1924, Abbott held a picnic for five of his publication's newsboys.

The first parade was held Aug. 11, 1929, when Abbott wanted to thank the children who hawked his newspaper on street corners. He could think of no better way than to give them the things they loved: ice cream, hot dogs and a day outdoors.

BACK TO TOP

Robert Sengstacke Abbott, founder of the Chicago Defender. (Chicago Defender)
Who is Bud Billiken?
In 1921, Abbott started Defender Junior, a page of his weekly paper devoted to children. It grew to include a club, drawing children across the U.S. and Africa and serving as an alternative to the Boy Scouts in response to the segregation at the time.

Bud Billiken, the page's fictional editor/mascot described as the guardian and protector of children, was invented by Abbott and the Defender's executive editor, Lucius Harper. Depending on which authority you ask, the two either found the word "billiken" in a dictionary, or Harper had a carving of one on his desk.

Side note: Good-luck figurines called billikens were a popular culture craze in the early 1900s. Florence Pretz, a Kansas City art teacher, created the tubby little good-luck creature -- a cross between a Kewpie doll and a Buddha figure -- and for a while the impish-looking "god of things as they ought to be" was all the rage. The Billiken Company of Chicago manufactured dolls, banks, figurines and other souvenirs in his likeness.

BACK TO TOP

Bud Billiken first appears on the Defender Junior page in the Chicago Defender, April 2, 1921. (Chicago Defender)
Celebrities
Many notable people have participated in the parade since its inception. Here are a few:


President Harry Truman, from left, Chicago Defender Publisher John Sengstacke and Mayor Richard J. Daley ride in the Bud Billiken parade in 1956. (Chicago Tribune historical photo)
Politicians and civic leaders: Both Mayors Daley; the Rev. Jesse Jackson; Barack Obama, as both a U.S. senator and president; President Harry Truman; and Chicago's first black mayor, Harold Washington.


Then-U.S. Sen. Barack Obama marches with wife Michelle during the Bud Billiken Parade in 2006. (Chicago Defender Charities)
Entertainers: James Brown, Duke Ellington, Billie Holiday, Lena Horne, Chaka Khan, Spike Lee, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Oprah Winfrey and Chance the Rapper.


Chance the Rapper, center, hands out concert tickets during the Bud Billiken Parade in 2017. (Abel Uribe/Chicago Tribune)
Athletes: Muhammad Ali, Michael Jordan, Joe Louis, former Olympian Jesse Owens and Floyd Patterson.


Former Chicago Ald. Charlie Chew, left, and boxer Muhammad Ali ride in the Bud Billiken Parade in 1975. (Chicago Tribune historical photo)