Santa Claus is coming to town for "A Mendota Christmas"

 Santa and Mrs. Claus, along with the recent Mendota Sweet Corn Festival mini-queen, Ava Kelly, center, and mini-kings, Easton Longmire, left, and Jonah Randolph are anxious for the arrival of Saturday, Dec. 4 when “A Mendota Christmas” will take place in downtown Mendota. Lots of holiday-related activities will take place during the day, including the return of Santa Claus to hear Christmas wishes from all of the children. (Reporter photo)
By: staff - Updated: 6 days ago

Posted Nov 30, 2021

  
MENDOTA – The holidays are quickly approaching and Mendota will be getting into the spirit of the season when it hosts “A Mendota Christmas” on Saturday, Dec. 4 in downtown Mendota. The event is sponsored by the Mendota Area Chamber of Commerce.

Numerous activities will be held during the day, including:

Holiday Craft & Vendor Show – Featuring craft and vendors for all of your holiday gift-giving needs, from 10 a.m.-3 p.m. at the Mendota Elks Lodge.
Free Hot Chocolate & Hot Dogs – The Mendota Lions Club will be providing treats on Illinois Avenue from 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Cows Coffee – Selling hot beverages on Illinois Avenue from 10:30 a.m.-3 p.m.
De Colores – Dance group performing at 10:30 a.m. on Illinois Avenue.
Taco Guzman – Selling tacos from 11 a.m.- 3 p.m.
Horse-Drawn Carriage Rides – At the corner of Indiana Avenue and Washington Street from 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Boy Scout Wreath Sales – The Boy Scouts will be selling holiday wreaths from 11 a.m.-3 p.m.
Santa Claus – Jolly Old Saint Nick will make an appearance on Illinois Avenue from noon-3 p.m. Children are encouraged to write letters and put them in Santa’s mailbox. Santa will be in his house. Social distancing will be practiced.
Free Book Giveaway – Books will be given away to children who visit with Santa as a way to promote literacy in Mendota, from noon-3 p.m.
Reindeer – Visit with Santa’s reindeer from noon-2 p.m.
Touch-a-Truck – Children of all ages are invited to see and explore vehicles – police cars, fire trucks, tractors and more.
Other businesses and organizations participating in the festivities include Mendota BPW (cookie kits), Expressions Salon (design-a-ornament), Mendota YMCA (Christmas limbo), HCC (crayon & coloring sheets), Mendota Bible Church (candy canes), Victory Baptist Church (Santa Bingo), First Presbyterian Church (BBQ sandwiches), Sports-N-Stuff, Community Health Partnership, Mendota Rotary Club and Holy Cross.

Also, stop by the information booth for your Build-A-Gingerbread Man activity. To complete the Gingerbread man, you will need to visit the above locations.