Got morning sickness? Treat yourself to homemade gingersnaps: Special to The Ellsworth American
December 6, 2021 by Merry Post on News     
Old letters and diaries can offer an intimate glimpse into the life of someone who lived long ago. The Jane Briggs Smith Fiske papers at the American Antiquarian Society chronicle the daily activities of a woman living on a New Hampshire farm. They also document her involvement in historical events during and immediately after the Civil War.

In 1863, a group of African-Americans in Hilton Head, S.C., set up the first freedmen’s town in the South — a self-governing community of former slaves. In places where Union troops remained in occupation, former slaves liberated themselves from plantations and started other freedmen’s towns, building homes, churches, and schools and cultivating gardens or cash crops.

Jane Briggs Smith was one of a number of idealistic abolitionists who were enlisted by religious and philanthropic institutions to teach literacy and arithmetic in schools in freedmen’s towns. She came from Hanson, a small Massachusetts town near Cape Cod, to teach in Hilton Head. She also taught in freedmen’s schools in Port Royal and Sumter, S.C., and in Washington, D.C. She met Fuller Fiske while she was teaching in the South. Because he was a Quaker, Fiske was probably a pacifist, which would explain why he was serving as a volunteer civilian nurse during the Civil War. They corresponded after Jane Smith returned north and married in 1872. Jane went to live on Fuller’s farm in Webster, N.H.

Early in her married life, Jane Fiske kept a detailed diary. In her diary, the year 1873 is full of information about her daily life, including weather data, gardening records, lists of household and farm chores completed, and sometimes descriptions of her mercurial moods. The record of her endless labors should disillusion anyone who cherishes romantic notions about 19th-century farm life. When she wasn’t sewing new clothes or mending old ones; washing, drying, and ironing laundry; sweeping, cleaning, scrubbing, and washing dishes; plucking dozens of chickens and turkeys for market; planting, weeding and harvesting vegetables; cooking, baking and preserving food; churning butter; and selling meat, butter, and eggs; she helped her husband, who was a school superintendent, write up accounts and reports.

Some of Jane’s work rhythms were seasonal or weekly: making pickles and jellies in August and September and baking breads every Saturday.

In January of 1873, Jane started a new pattern in baking. Four times that month she made sour milk gingersnaps. Any recipe that used up milk going sour would have been handy on a dairy farm in the days before refrigeration. But why did she make gingersnaps rather than, say, pancakes or cornbread?

Ginger is a well-known remedy for nausea. In the first half of the year 1873, Jane frequently mentioned feeling “very poorly,” “fearfully tired” and “far from well,” with headaches of increasing frequency. Entries that she made in April confirmed my suspicions. She wrote about sewing a wrapper, which was a loose, at-home dress, and a “tiny garment.” Jane was pregnant and craved gingersnaps to combat morning sickness.

Since Colonial times, New Englanders have liked ginger in their cakes and cookies. I agree with Jane Fiske that gingersnaps are welcome when you are tired and out of sorts or just any time. I found and adapted a recipe in a Connecticut cookbook published in 1872, the year before Jane’s journal entries. These gingersnaps are thin, spicy cookies that go very well with iced coffee.

Gingersnaps

½ cup granulated sugar
2 cups flour, sifted
½ tsp. baking soda
¼ tsp. cream of tartar
2 tsps. ginger
1 tsp. cinnamon
½ tsp. cloves
½ tsp. salt
½ cup unsalted butter, cut into tablespoons
½ cup molasses

Mix the dry ingredients together on low speed until combined. Add the butter and mix on medium low until the texture is uniformly sandy. Pour in the molasses and mix on medium speed just until a soft dough forms. Divide the dough in half and refrigerate it.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out half of the dough at a time 1/8-inch thick between two sheets of parchment or waxed paper on a cookie sheet and freeze for 15 minutes.

Working quickly, cut out 2-inch cookies with a floured cutter and place on parchment-lined cookie sheets. Bake for 13 to 15 minutes until a cookie feels fairly firm in the center when pressed and the edges look slightly browner than the centers.