Gingerbread creations dazzle at Jacksonville Historical Society’s annual sweet treat
Dan Scanlan
Florida Times-Union








The Stewart family's gingerbread creation takes on the Fox television "LEGO Masters" show at this year's Gingerbread Extravaganza.
Blame the Stewart family's candy creation at the 19th annual Gingerbread Extravaganza on a TV show the entire family watches, says 10-year-old daughter Magnolia.

Specifically, blame Fox network's "LEGO Masters," where teams build towering, intricate sculptures of the interlocking plastic blocks.

That's where her Westside family came up with the idea to design and build the baked and sugary version of the TV show's set for the event that runs through Dec. 22, she said.

"We watch it every week, so we thought it would be fun to build it, so we built a lot of LEGOs," she said. "... It took one day, an entire day, on a Saturday. We basically binged Hallmark!"

Across the Gothic arched nave of the 133-year-old Jacksonville Historical Society’s Old St. Andrews Church at 317 A. Philip Randolph Blvd., Leslie Case's "Santa's Sugar Village" was nestled amid snowdrifts of cotton with six gingerbread houses around a sugar cone Christmas tree. Paving miniature paths in Frosted Mini Wheats, the St. Augustine woman said she built the village after a society official suggested it.

Photos: Deck The Chairs underway at Jacksonville Beach

Light up the night:Dazzling Nights lights up Jacksonville Arboretum with 'snow,' lasers

Nestled next to a model railroad trestle, breakfast cereal makes up the roof and pathway of the first gingerbread house made by Leslie Case for her "Santa's Sugar Village."
"My husband and I got to our house, and we said, 'Why don't we try it?'" she said of the design. "We started with one house, then I said that's too little and we need to have more. So we bought a village and made every one different."

The Gingerbread Extravaganza was originally founded by the Rotary Club of South Jacksonville in 2003 as a fundraiser to benefit other nonprofits, including the Historical Society. The society began hosting it in 2010 with ticket sales and donations benefitting its educational programs and archival repository.

This year 42 entrants constructed creations ranging from towering Victorian mansions with detailed candy interiors to "Santa's Holiday Inn" motel complete with spun sugar swimming pool. Their creators range from professional bakeries to students and home chefs.


Carefully carried to the church across from VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena over the past two weeks, they were judged at a Thursday premiere.

"After a strange year since we did it the last time, Jacksonville needs gingerbread as much, if not more than it ever did," Historical Society CEO Alan Bliss said. "... We are gratified to have 22 newcomers, and we have one builder who is a 14-year returning veteran, so it kind of bookends the chronology."

Light displays: Some of our favorite Jacksonville-area Christmas light displays

Best in Show stands tall at the entrance of the event, a three-story "Santa's Gingerbread Dollhouse" by Teresa Thompson. Spun sugar was used to create its windows and chimney smoke as icing-accented balconies and windows open up into detailed interiors on all sides.

Bishop Snyder High School students had St. Nick and some animals on deck in their "Christmas on the Ark," a polar bear and Rudolph hanging out windows.

Nearby, Lynette Bracey's "The 12 Days of Christmas" attracted lots of looks, with 10 gingerbread lords a-leaping over its icing-coated roof. Elsewhere, six geese a-laying were nesting next to eight maids a-milking, like the rest of the holiday song all done in candy, icing, cookies and gingerbread.

An illuminated fireplace, furniture made of icing and a gingerbread radio can be seen inside a window on the Best in Show winner: a three-story "Santa's Gingerbread Dollhouse" by Teresa Thompson.
"I started it in July and I have done it all by myself," said Bracey, who is a nurse. "I did it because I have been watching all those shows like "Game of Thrones" and I was in love with it, and I wanted to do a castle. But I put a friendly spin on it."

Bracey's intricate design, with a castle and four other gingerbread houses, caught the eye of 7-year-old Violet Harding and her cellphone camera.

The little girl and her family from Orange Park had their own "Winter Wonderland Dreamhouse" creation nearby, with all the things she would want in a home done in icing, peppermints and gingerbread.

"Me and Mommy made our dream home, somewhere very close so it's always snowing," Violet said. "We wanted to live really close to a Christmas farm, so when it's Christmas, we can just walk over and have a Christmas."

Tree shortage: Get 'em while they last because fewer Christmas trees are for sale in Jacksonville and beyond

Violet Harding, 7, takes a photo of Lynette Bracey's  "The 12 Days of Christmas."
"Our dream home has to have a fish pond, a treehouse, and it has to be somewhere that we have a white Christmas," said her mother, Staci Harding. "We did it in one shot. We added a little bit after that."

The Gothic wooden sanctuary is decorated with holiday trees done by the Junior League of Jacksonville, one in the nave dedicated to nurses, doctors and other first responders.

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
The display is open from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tuesdays through Fridays for seniors and those with compromised health conditions; general admission is from 1 to 5 p.m. those days. It's open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays and noon to 4 p.m. Sundays. The event is closed Mondays and on Dec. 19. 

Masks are required, temperatures will be taken at the door and the exhibit is designed for one-way traffic, with green arrows on the floor. Tickets include a tour of the Merrill House Museum next door. Tickets are $10 for adults, $7 for military and seniors and $5 for children 4 to 12, available with more information at jaxhistory.org/gingerbread-extravaganza.

dscanlan@jacksonville.com: (904) 359-4549

19th Annual Gingerbread Extravaganza winners:
Best in Show: "Santa’s Gingerbread Dollhouse" by Teresa Thompson

Best Traditional: "12 Days of Christmas" by Lynette Bracey

Traditional 1st Runner-up: "The Magic of Christmas" by Lisa Crosby & Margaret Warren, Asa & Otto Haines

Traditional 2nd Runner-up: "Home Sweet Home" by Ginni Holder

Best Fantasy: "Baby’s 1st Christmas on the Cody Christmas Caboose" by Team Cody

Fantasy 1st Runner-up: "Silent Night:  Remembering the Lord God Bird" by Cashore & Flowers

Fantasy 2nd Runner-up: "Let the Games Begin" by Lisa Wright, Linda Ellis, Nancy Balch & Becky Hilbert

Best Religious: "Christmas on the Ark" by Bishop Snyder High School

Religious 1st Runner-up: "Chronicles of Samson" by Evie Bolduc, Zion Bourgeois, Mia Todd, Abbi Squires, Shanti Earls (Keys Educational Resource Center)

Best Historic Structure: "St. Paul’s Catholic Church Jacksonville Beach" by the O’Donovan Family

Historic 1st Runner-up: "Fishweir Elementary School of the Arts" by Stefanie, David, Jonas & Julian Walter

Historic 2nd Runner-up: "Laura Street Trio" by Episcopal School of Jacksonville – St. Mark’s

Best Village: "Artist Avenue" by The Laughlins

Village 1st Runner-up: "Santa’s Sugar Village" by Kip & Leslie Case

Village 2nd Runner-up: "Santa’s Holiday Inn" by Dave & Tracy Duncan