 Montclair investigating Black firefighters' discrimination claims Julia Martin NorthJersey.com The Montclair Township Council has hired a lawyer to investigate claims by two Black firefighters that recent promotional exams were administered in a racially discriminatory way. Pressure to investigate came from the town's Civil Rights Commission and NAACP chapter, which received the confidential claims.  Roger Terry, president of the Montclair NAACP, said in a statement last week that the organization had received “credible allegations by two African American Officers of the Montclair Fire Department” of racial bias. Christa Rapoport, chair of the Civil Rights Commission, said in an emailed statement to council members last week that the firefighters allege “inadequate administration and supervision of the examination." She said that new scenarios were added and, unlike in past years, no points were given for seniority. There was also "selective consideration of minor, decades-old disciplinary incidents and excused medical absences, designed to negatively impact the promotional scores of only African-American candidates."  In her statement to the council, Rapoport said that another assertation is that Montclair Fire Chief John Herrmann didn't recuse himself from his son's promotional activities.   Councilor Peter Yacobellis, a liaison to the Civil Rights Commission, said he is concerned that "we might have ourselves a textbook example of structural racism. I certainly hope not. But it's my understanding that this isn't the first time accusations like this have been raised." He and Rapoport both called on the department to hold off on issuing any promotions until the investigation is complete. Library brouhaha:Montclair Library funding restored, but residents want to know what prompted 'messy' audit Greener pastures:NJ will fund Essex-Hudson trail from Montclair to Jersey City, Murphy says "We need to make sure lived equality in Montclair matches legal equality and, frankly, matches the values that I know the majority of this town holds," Yacobellis said. Julia Martin is the 2021 recipient of the New Jersey Society for Professional Journalists' David Carr award for her coverage of Montclair for NorthJersey.com. For unlimited access to the most important news from your local community, please subscribe or activate your digital account today. Email: jmartin@gannettnj.com Twitter: @TheWriteJulia  We Noticed You're Blocking Ads We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism. Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing. Unblock Ads Go Ad Free Already a subscriber? Please sign in.