  Welcome, Guest Sign UpLog In 39° Cloudy/Wind Home News Sports Obits Business Living Events Opinion Multimedia Classifieds Local Jobs + More Toggle navigation Home Business Business Next Up NEXT UP Ag commissioner: $1.2M going to support NY specialty crops	 Ag commissioner: $1.2M going to support NY specialty crops New York State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball last… FEATURED PERSONAL FINANCE: Five ways to teach your children to give back By HOLLEY SMALDONE-CRAGG 3 hrs ago  Facebook Twitter Email Print Save In the era of Covid-19, many charitable organizations find themselves in a precarious financial position while experiencing unprecedented demand, and they could benefit greatly from the generosity of those in their community. This may present an opportunity to instill the value of giving to others in your child. If you’re a parent, here are some ways you can encourage your kids to become budding philanthropists. Talk about why you giveHelp your child understand the importance of giving to others in need. Talk early and often about why sharing your knowledge, abilities, possessions or wealth matters to you. Instilling a culture of giving in your family is a process—not a one-time event. Remember to embrace the joy of giving, doing your best not to make giving back feel like a homework assignment or chore. Find causes your child cares aboutYour child is more likely to develop a habit of giving back when he or she is passionate about the cause. Start by brainstorming the possibilities of who your child can help, such as their classmates, animals, the homeless, or the environment. Then, encourage him or her to identify what talents to offer in service. Does he love to bake? Does she enjoy music or caring for animals? Next, help your child choose one or two charities whose missions reflect his or her interests. Involve older children in the search and vetting process, teaching them how to have confidence that a charity is doing its best to help the cause. Give and volunteer togetherWhen your children see you volunteering your time, talent and treasure, they see your values at work. Find ways to involve your children in your own giving. Your children will learn first-hand how rewarding giving to others can feel, and you’ll have the bonus of creating family memories to cherish too. Encourage disciplined savingKids need to learn how to manage their own money in order to become responsible givers as they grow older. When your children get an allowance, or otherwise receive money, they can practice making responsible choices. Introduce the idea of “save, share and spend” — setting aside a portion of their money for the future, a portion to help others and a portion for fun spending. Create a family foundationConsider establishing a foundation to fund causes you care about. Formalizing your giving in this way creates ongoing opportunities for you and your children to make a lasting impact on the community. Talk to your financial advisor for advice regarding establishing a foundation and leaving a legacy of service to the next generation. Holley Smaldone-Cragg, CMFC, is a Financial Advisor with Ameriprise Financial in Geneva. She specializes in fee-based financial planning and asset management strategies and has been in practice for over 35 years. Her website is ameripriseadvisors.com/holley.com. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × 4 remaining of 5 Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content. Holley Smaldone-Cragg Smaldone-Cragg Tags Holley Smaldone-cragg Personal Finance Children Giving Saving Trending Food Videos Recommended for you More Business Business of the Week Local National Latest e-Edition Finger Lakes Times Finger Lakes Times Already a subscriber? Click the image on the left to view the latest e-edition. Don't have a subscription? Click here to see our subscription options. News In Your Inbox! Daily Headlines Our daily headlines delivered to your inbox each morning for your reading pleasure. Breaking News Receive news and emergency updates as soon as the stories unfold. Obituaries Get the latest obituaries from the Finger Lakes Times. Coronavirus Updates Get the latest local and national news. Local Weather Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. Enter email address Trending Recipes Hawaiian Roll Ham Sliders Give Me Some Sugga! Fudge Cookies Just Plain Good Golden Fried Chicken Cutlets What's Trending Police identify people in pedestrian fatality Wayne County smashes Covid-19 cases record Syracuse woman getting prison for fatal crash SF man gets prison for parole officer incident Larry Driscoll 'epitomizes' George Bailey, wins 2021 award A new home for Winnek Post 396 Seneca Falls gearing up for expanded It's A Wonderful Life Festival Dec. 8-12 COMMUNITY GIVING: Dr. Joseph Lorenzetti Attorneys spar at murder sentencing Nearly maximum sentence in Yates County murder case What do you think? The latest U.S. school shooting, which happened last week in Michigan and ended with four children being killed, has reignited the debate about gun control. When do you predict the Second Amendment to the Constitution might be altered in any way? By middle of next year Before 2024 presidential election By 2025 By 2030 Never   How is my business performing online? First Name * Email Address * Business Name * Local Businesses   Find a local business I'm looking for… Featured Jobs Facebook Stocks Market Data by TradingView Get in touch with Finger Lakes Times Submit Content Submit News Send a Letter to the Editor Submit a Video Advertise Place a Classified Ad Place a Display Ad Place a Help Wanted Ad Subscribe Start a Subscription Support Inquiry Contact Us ILLINOIS Ford County Record Hancock Journal-Pilot Hoopeston Chronicle The Independent News Iroquois Times-Republic Journal-Republican The News-Gazette Rantoul Press INDIANA Fountain Co. Neighbor Hartford City News-Times Herald Journal KV Post News Lafayette Leader Newton Co. Enterprise Rensselaer Republican Review-Republican Winchester News-Gazette IOWA Atlantic News Telegraph Audubon Advocate-Journal Barr's Post Card News Collector's Journal Fayette County Union Ft. Madison Daily Democrat Independence Bulletin-Journal Keokuk Daily Gate City Oelwein Daily Register Vinton Newspapers Waverly Newspapers MICHIGAN Iosco County News-Herald Ludington Daily News Oceana's Herald-Journal Oscoda Press White Lake Beacon NEW YORK Finger Lakes Times Olean Times Herald Salamanca Press PENNSYLVANIA Bradford Era Clearfield Progress Courier Express Free Press Courier Jeffersonian Democrat Leader Vindicator Potter Leader-Enterprise Reporter Argus Tri County Sunday The Wellsboro Gazette © Copyright 2021 Finger Lakes Times, 218 Genesee St. Geneva, New York | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 