 Despite mayor's support, Mount Vernon hasn't released police records Tiffany Cusaac-Smith New York State Team MOUNT VERNON - When Mayor Shawyn Patterson-Howard addressed hundreds of constituents at City Hall days after George Floyd’s death, she was clear: Reform had to come.  At the time, the city had been embroiled in controversy after a Mount Vernon police officer recorded his colleagues saying they had made false arrests, planted evidence, and beat residents, according to a report first published by the WNYC/Gothamist.  And at that early June rally, Patterson-Howard, a reformist mayor, told the crowd how her administration needed prosecutors' help to root out and charge corrupt police officers whose cases had been sent to the district attorney’s office for review.  Then, she told them, “Another policy that we want to see is the repeal of 50-a,” at which time the crowd cheered and clapped.  “50-a is a law that protects the histories of the officers,” Patterson-Howard said. “It covers up their bad doings and their charges and their disciplinary actions and the complaints that they have in the community.” Search the database:New York police disciplinary records New York 50-A Repeal: Months later, police find ways to shield disciplinary records Eighteen months after the once-obscure civil service provision extensively used to shield police disciplinary records is no longer on the books in New York, repealed amid last year’s racial justice protests. But that move has not ushered in a wave of transparency of police conduct as advocates and communities impacted by decades of over-policing had hoped. Instead, many cities, including Mount Vernon, have stifled the release of disciplinary records, saying their police departments are waiting for courts to resolve the matter, or that the request was too burdensome.  Mount Vernon is one of the largest departments in that category, and is now the target of a federal civil rights probe into allegations that the city police engaged in a pattern or policies of unlawful or unconstitutional conduct including excessive force and falsifying evidence, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, Damian Williams, announced Dec. 3.  Probe:Justice Department opens federal civil rights probe into Mount Vernon Police Department How neighboring departments have responded Bronxville has never acknowledged the request. Yonkers estimated it would cost nearly $31,000 to process their request and required a deposit of around $15,000 to start. Pelham provided a collection of responsive records in March. New Rochelle said last year that it would take time to compile the records but hasn't provided an update.  Mayor Patterson-Howard said in October that she's still a supporter of releasing the records but that it was a question of whether the city has the "bandwidth" to do so.  Mount Vernon, she said, had a police department plagued by 25 to 30 vacancies, along with an uptick in shootings and the coronavirus pandemic.  "When you don't have that administrative staff, when your police need to be used more to address public safety concerns in the community as crime has gone up in the region," she said. Patterson-Howard added, "That's really been our focus: dealing with getting guns off the streets, dealing with solving homicides, dealing with doing an internal investigation, and turning that information over to the district attorney's office." But when asked whether public safety included transparency, particularly for communities who have been asking for the latter for generations, she said, the focus remains on combatting street crime.  Moreover, Patterson-Howard said, the department has hired an outside investigator to review complaints and send them to the district attorney's office.   She didn't give a timetable of when the city would be able to expand its bandwidth to disclose more of its records or respond to the records requests. Other groups such as the New York Civil Liberties Union have sued Rochester and Nassau County police departments over records once covered by 50-a. On Nov. 22 Gannett Company Inc., parent company of The Times Telegram took legal action against the village of Herkimer to obtain access to Herkimer Police Department’s disciplinary records. At press conference Dec. 3 , Patterson-Howard told the USA Today Network New York that "absolutely," the city's commitment to its public-records obligations is "the same thing that we committed to the Department of Justice." Acknowledging that Mount Vernon is an under-resourced city and that reviewing records could take some time, she avowed that "we are committed to it." However, only a few minutes later, Mount Vernon Corporation Counsel Brian G. Johnson stepped up to the podium, announcing that "I do want to walk back that promise to you at this time." Johnson described the USA Today Network New York's request as voluminous and called requests for disciplinary records "a highly controversial ... area of law." He further cited a number of agencies across the state that have failed to even acknowledge requests for disciplinary records. Engendering more trust Wilbur Aldridge, the regional director of the Mid-Hudson NAACP, said there’s a degree of distrust that communities of color such as Mount Vernon have toward police and that publicly releasing the records would engender more trust between the two. “It is important that we maintain a degree of transparency with the police as we do with any other position that someone has within the public sector,” Aldridge said. “It's a protective measure for the public to know if there are officers that have been not enforcing the law as they should.” He added the desire to release records previously protected for decades under 50-a comes from departments’ failure to deal with officers, and that the efforts to get the information should be coupled with more civilian complaint review boards.  In the meantime, there have been several instances of perceived police misconduct in Mount Vernon. This summer, a city police officer pleaded guilty to falsifying records and reckless assault after he assaulted a handcuffed person. There have also been several lawsuits against the city over strip searches.  And in April, Westchester County District Attorney Mimi Rocah asked the U.S. Justice Department to investigate the department for " for pervasive and persistent alleged civil rights violations including unlawful strip searches, excessive use of force, and other misconduct." “While our criminal investigations of individual officers continue, we are requesting that DOJ scrutinize the MVPD’s operations, training and policies to determine whether the MVPD is systematically violating peoples’ civil rights and, if so, to take action to address these matters,” Rocah added. When asked about a DOJ investigation, Mayor Patterson-Howard said in October that she was supportive of anything to improve public safety but not of "witch hunts." Later in that interview, she admitted that transparency is part of public safety, though she would not commit to a timeline to publicly release the records or formally acknowledge the USA TODAY Network's request for them. USA Today Network New York staff writer Asher Stockler contributed to this report. Tiffany Cusaac-Smith covers race and justice for the USA TODAY Network of New York. Click here for her latest stories. Follow her on Twitter @T_Cusaac. Thanks to our subscribers for supporting quality local journalism. If you aren’t a subscriber, please consider a digital subscription. We Noticed You're Blocking Ads We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism. Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing. Unblock Ads Go Ad Free Already a subscriber? Please sign in.