 Accident In Norwich Leaves Two Sheriff's Deputies Injured Published: December 6th, 2021 By: Sarah Genter Accident in Norwich leaves two Sheriff's Deputies injuredThe vehicles involved in the accident that occurred on Saturday, December 4, at 11:56 p.m. An investigation into the crash is still pending. (Photos from the City of Norwich Police Department) NORWICH — On Saturday, December 4, at approximately 11:56 p.m., two Chenango County Sheriff’s Deputies in a patrol car were involved in a crash with another vehicle at the intersection of East Main Street and North Broad Street in Norwich. "The deputies were northbound heading to a call, with their lights and sirens on," said Chenango County Sheriff's Department Lieutenant Joshua Gould. "As they went through the intersection, the other vehicle was traveling, he would've been traveling west on Main Street. And, you know, he basically T-boned them." The driver of the vehicle that hit the deputies was 19 year old Seth Wessels, who was found to be intoxicated at the time of the accident. Story Continues Below Adverts "An investigation ensued, both deputies were taken to the hospital and later released with minor injuries," said Norwich PD Detective Sergeant Reuben Roach. "Seth was arrested for a DWI, and the investigation is still pending." The Norwich Police Department and Norwich Fire Department responded to the accident. Additionally, an accident reconstruction system from the Chenango County Sheriff's Department was brought to the scene. "Basically there's a machine system, whatever you want to call it, that reconstructs the whole scene, which basically does 365 [degree] photographs, as well as tracking of points. So it essentially does exactly what you say, it reconstructs it," Gould explained. "So we have a full diagram of the whole scene, with measurements, and we can do animations with it. You know, there's lots of different things we can do with it after the fact." Gould confirmed both deputies suffered minor injuries from the accident, and one of them has not yet returned to work. "One's still out, one returned. One never missed any time. He came back, you know, the next day and just had some minor sprain to his wrists," he said. "The other one did go to the hospital, and as of right now is out for the remainder of this week, and then getting reevaluated." An investigation into the accident is ongoing. Roach confirmed that Wessels was charged with a DWI, and is scheduled to appear in court. "The investigation is ongoing. Mr. Wessels will be going to court, and I believe they're going to be assessing the deputies' injuries," he said. Author: Sarah Genter - More From This Author 2.5k Shares facebook sharing button Sharemessenger sharing button Sharetwitter sharing buttonpinterest sharing buttonemail sharing button Comments Please, login to comment. Former Chenango County resident inducted into Upstate NY Basketball Hall of Fame Former Chenango County resident inducted into Upstate NY Basketball Hall of Fame ALBANY - Last month, The Upstate New York Basketball Hall of Fame, headquartered at the Times Union Center in Albany, .. November 30th 2021 Parade of Lights winners 2021 Parade of Lights winners This year’s 26th annual Parade of Lights was hosted by the Norwich B.I.D. and Chobani. The parade awards are (winners .. December 3rd Man charged with murder allegedly burned body, may have had help Boys' Basketball: Slow start hurts S-E in tournament championship game Wrestling: Shenendehowa runs away with Clyde Cole team title Toys collected, $3,050 raised to benefit Toys for Tots Toys collected, $3,050 raised to benefit Toys for Tots Keep Calm and Kerri On: ‘Personal Touch’ Keep Calm and Kerri On: ‘Personal Touch’ Basketball: Late Game Heroics push Purple Tornado past CV Boys’ Basketball: Seton Catholic Central 95, Bainbridge-Guilford 25 COVID-19 Update for Chenango County Girls' Basketball: Oxford 55, Unadilla Valley 42 Terms of Service - Privacy Policy © 2021 Snyder Communications - The Evening Sun 29 Lackawanna Avenue, Norwich, NY 13815 - (607) 334-3276 2.5k Shares facebook sharing button messenger sharing button twitter sharing button pinterest sharing button email sharing button