Skip to main content Sign In Recommended Jim Malatras, chancellor of the State University of New York, speaks during a press conference about the new COVID-19 vaccine site opening at University at Albany on Friday, Jan. 15, 2021 in Albany, N.Y. Havidan Rodriguez, president of University at Albany, stands behind him. (Lori Van Buren/Times Union) Calls grow for embattled SUNY chancellor to step down A selection of Cosmic Donuts' eponymous creations. Cosmic Donuts in Kinderhook closes for good Lt. Governor Kathy Hochul addresses the people of New York during a press conference at the New York State Capitol on Wednesday, Aug. 11, 2021 in Albany, N.Y. NY approved for homeowners assistance fund, $539 million West Elm in Stuyvesant Plaza is closing in January. Pottery Barn will move its Crossgates Mall location to Stuyvesant Plaza.  West Elm closing, Pottery Barn taking its space A sale pending realty sign is seen in front of a home on Monday, Nov. 30, 2020 in Albany, N.Y. (Lori Van Buren/Times Union) Capital Region real estate demand still high, despite low inventory Limousine company operator Nauman Hussain, second from left, arrives at the school building in Schoharie where he was expected to accept a plea bargain offer in connection with the deadly Oct. 6, 2018 limo crash that left 20 people dead. Hussain's court appearance was moved to the school because a large crowd of family and friends of the victims were expected to attend Hussain's court appearance. Insurer in limo tragedy liquidated after paying $500,000 to victims'... Sea Smoke Waterfront Grill is in a commercial building set among more than 250 new apartments on the southern half of Center Island, in the Hudson River between Green Island and Troy.  Bite-Sized: Two new restaurants, and Lark Street soup winners named The resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic, driven by the rapidly spreading omicron variant, is causing some to ask whether it's time for a government order by Capital Region counties to require proof of vaccination for admission to indoor spaces including restaurants and theaters, similar to one in effect in New York City for the past several months. Poll: Is it time for vax requirement for upstate restaurants? The University at Albany COVID-19 testing is closed, although some signage around the campus was still in place on Thursday, June 24, 2021, in Albany, N.Y. (Will Waldron/Times Union) Free COVID-19 testing center opens in Saratoga County Coronavirus update No local counties plan to follow NYC's vaccination mandate for private... NEWS Pot's legal, but some local towns worry about shops, lounges Photo of Paul Nelson Paul Nelson Dec. 6, 2021 Updated: Dec. 6, 2021 5:22 p.m. A budtender pours marijuana from a jar in Los Angeles, California.  A budtender pours marijuana from a jar in Los Angeles, California.  David McNew/Getty Images A self-described “hippie anthropologist,” East Greenbush Supervisor Jack Conway knows a thing or two about the 1960s when marijuana use was identified as a staple of the counter culture, but not widely used or accepted by most Americans. “Marijuana has proven to be beneficial socially and individually, less harmful than alcohol and tobacco,” said the 69-year-old retired Skidmore College assistant professor, who recalled in response to a resident's question about whether he ever smoked pot, answered that he “tried it once for 20 years.”  “How can it be illegal in a free country, but more importantly, unlike alcohol and tobacco, marijuana has 150 critical medical uses so it’s time for this whole cultural baggage about marijuana to be lifted because very quietly tens of millions of people smoke pot in this country already before legalization,” he said. Acceptance of marijuana use has grown in the decades since Conway was a teenager. Last year, New York legalized the sale of recreational marijuana and now local governments are deciding whether to allow marijuana dispensaries and lounges within their borders. Conway is confident his town will allow dispensaries. But some local suburban towns are not as enthusiastic. Glenville, Niskayuna, Ballston and Wilton have opted out of allowing marijuana shops. Colonie and Clifton Park are weighing legislation that forbids lounges where people can smoke marijuana. New York is one of more than a dozen states that have legalized recreational marijuana. American consumption of the drug has increased over the last half century. A Gallup poll conducted in August showed 49 percent of Americans say they've tried marijuana, though only 12 percent say they are marijuana smokers. Fifty years ago, just 4 percent said they had tried the drug. In recent years, the percentage of Americans who consider themselves smokers has hovered between 11 and 13 percent. The East Greenbush Town Board will hold a public hearing Thursday on a local law to opt out of lounges that allow on-site cannabis consumption. Conway is confident East Greenbush leaders will back dispensaries. A formal vote is slated for Dec. 15.  Conway is annoyed by the tenor of discussions in many municipalities as communities debate whether to open the door to dispensaries and establishments where people can freely smoke.  Cities, towns and villages have the choice of whether they want dispensaries and on-site consumption lounges within their limits. To opt out, a municipality must pass a local law by Dec. 31, nine months after the state's "The Marihuana Regulation and Taxation Act" took effect. If a municipality does not opt out by the end of the year, they will not have another opportunity to do so.  In the future, municipalities that opt out can repeal the local law and allow the establishment of shops and lounges.  All local laws associated with opting out of retail dispensaries or on-site consumption licenses are subject to a permissive referendum. There will be a 13-percent tax on marijuana sales with a 9-percent excise tax that will go to the state. The county and cities, towns and villages will share the remaining 4 percent at 25 and 75 percent, respectively. A dispensary is a location, typically inside a retail store front or office building, where patients or consumers can access cannabis and cannabis-related items for medical or recreational use. The state must still spell out the rules and regulations that will govern the operation of marijuana dispensaries and other establishments.  When passed last year, the state's law immediately decriminalized the possession of less than 3 ounces of marijuana for adults 21 and older. Niskayuna and Glenville have already opted out of housing dispensaries and lounges on the notion marijuana use sends a bad message especially to teens and opens the door to problems that far outweigh profits, tax revenue and any other benefits. Critics also expressed anxieties about buzzed driving, second-hand smoke, and the adverse physical, social, mental and social tolls of marijuana on young people.   Glenville Supervisor Chris Koetzle said the town wanted to see what rules the state enacts before deciding whether to get into the cannabis business.  “We said ‘let’s just wait and see what the state does as far as regulations, how the market develops as well, and let’s wait and see and then make a decision,’ but the state told us that if we don’t opt out by now, then we can never opt out, so it makes sense to opt out and wait and see,” said Koetzle.   Still, other communities like the village of Ballston Spa in October by a narrow 3-2 margin voted to opt in, Mayor Christine M. Fitzpatrick said.  “There was the feeling that it’s legal, it exists, and there will be tax revenue that will accrue to us as a result of it,” Fitzpatrick said. She said she supported the idea of dispensaries but was against having lounges with on-site use. Conway, who challenged the idea that marijuana is a gateway drug to other drugs, said East Greenbush will likely support being a hosting site for marijuana dispensaries. “We have Columbia Turnpike, which for 15 years has needed to be revitalized, and we’re making great progress, a dispensary with 3 percent tax going directly to  the municipality, on Columbia Turnpike would be a game changer,” said Conway. He added neither he nor others on the governing body have the grandiose notion that the town will be rolling in money from the day dispensaries open. “It’s the kind of business that can generate traffic, can generate people who will stop at a restaurant or grocery store.”  He argued that in years from now, dispensaries will boom, much in the same way liquor stores that have become a staple.  Incoming Colonie town Supervisor Peter Crummey, a former town justice, said the town has approved dispensaries but not on-site consumption businesses. “We’re waiting on state (regulations) as to how to implement such an establishment in conjunction with applicable planning and zoning laws,” said Crummey, who takes office in January. He hopes any future cannabis proceeds that flow into the town’s coffers will be used to fund education programs on marijuana.  He said that the town board's decision making was guided by the recommendation of former Colone Police Chief Jonathan Teale, who retired in June.     Like Colonie and East Greenbush, many local governments have relied on the expertise of police leaders to guide them.  They can also look to the state Association of Towns as a resource.  Sarah Brancatela, who works for the association, said that “lots of towns” have reached out to the group for guidance “in an effort to better understand how the law works and what the scope of their authority is.” The association has a guide available on its web site to help out. She said towns are opting out “primarily in response to the feedback they are getting from their communities” and that the association has not taken a stance on the matter.   The Bethlehem Town Board will consider the matter on Wednesday, Supervisor David VanLuven said.  A public hearing was held late last month. VanLuven said that none of the Town Board members have publicly state their position.    He pointed out, however, that in this case age isn’t just a number, but more of a barometer of how people feel about buying and smoking pot in a public place.    “One of the patterns I’m observing is older generations grew up with the perspective that marijuana consumption is a bad thing, and  if were to have on-site retail, it would be along the lines of an adult book store, something that someone would want to go in in secret, whereas young generations view marijuana consumption in very much the same way as they view tobacco and alcohol, it’s something that lots of people are doing, there’s no shame or any reason to be embarrassed, and they’d be perfectly comfortable having a retail dispensary or on site consumption in the commercial part of town,” he said.  Rotterdam also has a vote coming up soon. Back in Ballston Spa, Fitzpatrick, the mayor, said village officials will now turn their attention to making sure that cannabis businesses are properly zoned, and that patrons follow the rules and regulations, so that, for example, people are not exposed to second hand smoke.     MOST POPULAR Former RPI students say school's mental health policies are harmful Attorney: 'Serious sexual misconduct' allegation against Chris Cuomo Lagrangeville home’s world-record Christmas light display shines on Scattered outages as high winds approach Charges reduced for man arrested in Saratoga bar death of retired correction officer CAPITAL NEWSPAPERS--newsroom, sometime in the 1960's -- loucks-- (Times Union archive) Sign up for The Knick » Get the latest news and some area history with our afternoon newsletter. Sign up for breaking news alerts When critical news happens in the Capital Region, you'll be the first to know Email Enter your email By signing up, you agree to ou r Terms of Use and acknowledge that your information will be used as described in our Privacy Policy. Photo of Paul Nelson Written By Paul Nelson Reach Paul on Paul Nelson covers cops and courts in Schenectady County as well as the suburban towns of Niskayuna and Rotterdam. Contact him at pnelson@timesunion.com or 518-454-5347. Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer, $429.99 at Dyson Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer review: Yes, it's worth $400 Streamlight 325 Lumen Pocket Mate Keychain Clip-on USB Rechargeable Flashlight ($23.36) from Amazon. This Streamlight USB-rechargeable flashlight is 33% off on Amazon The VIZIO 75-Inch M-Series Quantum 4K UHD LED HDR Smart TV ($799) from Amazon.  This 75-inch VIZIO 4k smart TV is still at its Black Friday price Stanley Classic Vacuum Insulated Wide Mouth Bottle ($14.86) and Stanley Adventure All-in-One, Boil + Brewer French Press Coffee Maker ($17.50) from Amazon.  Stanley’s adventure-ready thermoses + camp gear are 30% off today Amazon Has Millions of Prime Subscribers — But Few Know About This Savings Trick Capital One Shopping | Sponsored Cambridge: Startup Is Changing the Way People Retire SmartAsset | Sponsored Clifton Park leader calls on-site pot use 'expansion of drug culture' Clifton Park Supervisor Phil Barrett wants to ban on-site use of marijuana in town,... Times Union newspaper's home RETURN TO TOP ABOUT Our Company General Standards and Practices Newspaper Delivery Safety Procedures Advertising Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Jobs at the TU CONTACT Contact Us Weather School Closings Events Calendar Celebrations Obituaries Online Store Puzzles Palace SERVICES Subscriber Services Home Delivery Become a Carrier e-Edition Corporate Subscriptions Mobile App Copyright and Reprint Archives HEARST newspapers logo©2021 Hearst