Business Travel NewsBusiness Travel News Business Travel News Supplier DirectorySUPPLIER DIRECTORY Understanding the Pandemic-Era Traveler < PREVNEXT > Using Profile to Advance Personalization Personalization for business travelers is a vision heavily promoted but rarely realized. With increased need to understand travelers and simplify trips in a pandemic environment, could advanced profile management technology finally deliver? Maybe. By Amon Cohen / November 11, 2021 SHARE       In the pre-digital world, a profile was, and still is, an unstructured block of text that travel management companies retain within their global distribution system. The text amounts to a repository of repeatedly used details about the traveler to make the booking process faster, such as payment card numbers, frequent flyer IDs and passport information. On top is a policy layer, outlining, for example, the cabin in which the traveler is allowed to fly. The Road Ahead or a Cul-de-Sac? A new generation of digital profile management systems can potentially absorb much more information to understand travelers based on their previous booking (and even search) behavior and a detailed, structured record of their preferences. Where opinion starts to diverge is on the merit of such an idea. Enthusiasts paint a picture of technology staying one step ahead of travelers to anticipate their needs and keep them happy, safe and compliant throughout the pre-trip and on-trip process. Sceptics see little relevance to business (as opposed to leisure) travel and cast doubt on whether profile-driven personalization will ever materialize in practice. “For business travel I don’t think anyone really cares whether or not the business traveler likes long walks on the beach or prefers red wine or white,” said David Wood, CEO of Trondent Development Corp, a vendor of GDS-independent profile management systems to TMCs. “Those are things you care more about on a consumer-based trip where you are planning a nice vacation for somebody. For a business trip, you only want some degree of personalization, like ‘I want a king-sized bed and an economy car and a no-smoking room and an aisle.’ Those types of things are pretty standard. “TMC call centers just want to get people off the phone as quickly as they can so they can go on to the next one and they’re not going to ask about any of the touchy-feely stuff,” said Wood. Others see more potential, including Katharina Navarro, global category manager for travel and meetings at Capgemini. She entertains a vision of artificial intelligence “that augments elements in your profile so that it starts to understand you go to Paris every week where you always like to stay in this one hotel. It learns as it goes and combines the profile of what you like with the policy of what you should be booking to give a perfect match.” According to Will Pinnell, vice president, product for BCD Travel, this is starting to happen. “Newer technology is no longer relegated to the traditional and static fields that are prepopulated in a reservation system or sent from an HR feed by the corporation,” he said. “These new profile systems increasingly contain personal information, including Facebook, Twitter or Instagram handles. Tying multiple systems together is the signature of next-generation profile systems.  “These new profiles learn based on a traveler’s behavior and over time can create personas of individuals based on a set of collective attributes or behavior. Personas could include airline or hotel loyalist, road warrior, upgrade investigator, service-often-required, new to the company, and so on.” What Profile-Driven Personalized Looks Like David Chappell, UK country director for the travel technology provider Midoco, imagines perfect personalization of a London-New York journey. The traveler is guided by a mobile app that is powered by a profile management system connected via application programming interfaces to numerous other information sources and service tools. The process starts with a traveler booking a flight online and then being messaged a week later to ask them, since they haven’t yet booked a hotel, if they would like a reservation to be made at the same property they stayed in last time. On the morning of the outbound flight, the system checks Google to assess traffic between the traveler’s home address and airport.  “If it’s busy, I can send a message to say ‘you might consider a different route,’ or even better, if the app is geolocated, I can see the they are still at home and that traffic means they are going to be late, so I can send a message to say, ‘You really need to think about getting on your way, otherwise we might need to change your flight; would you like us to do that for you if you are delayed?’” said Chappell. At Heathrow airport, an API connection from flight-tracking service FlightGlobal informs the traveller their flight has been delayed. The app knows that last time this happened, the traveler bought time at a departure lounge, so they are pinged a message offering the opportunity to book lounge space again for £30. On landing at Kennedy, the traveler is alerted that their taxi has been rebooked and the hotel informed of their late arrival. On arrival at the hotel, another message reminds the traveler they must show their virtual card number on which everything will be paid. Meanwhile, the app has already connected through an API to the traveler’s Facebook profile which reveals they like fish restaurants. A message is sent offering to book a famous fish restaurant around the corner from the hotel. “’Also, we tell them one of their colleagues is in New York, because we have their profile as well,” said Chappell. “We ask ‘Would you like to go to dinner together?’” Could, and Should, Business Travel Be “Amazonized” “Every single piece of that technology I’ve just described exists today,” said Chappell. “However, no one has hooked it all together. There are people who offer bits of it. The logical concepts behind that and the ability to remove the false positives [that would create irrelevant alerts] from all the triggers would be insanely complex. “I think we are many years from that kind of journey,” Chappell continued. “However, large aggregators like Amazon are getting pretty good at offering just relevant stuff. Jeff Bezos’ single biggest breakthrough was to see just how predictable people are based on data, so I think in time that kind of environment will come.” But it is precisely the comparison with Amazon that places Guy Snelgar, senior vice president for global travel technology integration with Partnership Travel Consulting, in the sceptics’ camp on this issue. “We have been talking about personalization for 10 years,” he said. “I have not seen anyone usefully apply that, and not just in travel. I bought a Disney Princess play castle on Amazon for my niece four years ago and every month Amazon still sends similar product recommendations to me. If Amazon can’t do it very well, I’m not sure that expecting companies that service business travelers to do it is realistic.” Snelgar said basic profile-driven personalization, for example to display details of past choices when booking repeat visits to a destination, does have value. “A digital version could add to that, but we’ve plateaued out,” he said. “There’s still work to be done to make the most of what’s already there.” Chappell agrees. “Saying ‘this is where you stayed when you went to New York last time’ may sound like a really simple concept but in a lot of TMCs that’s quite tricky,” he said. “A lot of people are striving to make it happen, but travel is a very low-margin industry and change costs money. If you haven’t got a lot of money, you’re not going to change unless your customer really demands it.” Covid has depleted the margins of corporate travel businesses even further, and the pandemic has also set back profile-driven personalization in a direct yet perhaps overlooked way. “Personalization by TMCs requires scale, and scale requires volume of transactions,” said BCD’s Pinnell. “Unfortunately, given the impact of Covid, past travel behavior and activity aren’t necessarily predictors of future travel [anymore]. Travel patterns and policies are going to shift dramatically over the next several years. As more people work from home, as more offices close and as more meetings are conducted virtually, we’ll establish a new baseline for travel.  We’ll need to uncover this new normal before systems can begin to predict and personalize the business traveler’s experience.” Signs of progress In spite of these diverse challenges, there are signs that profile-driven personalization is moving forward. UK-based startup Grapevine won innovation awards at BTN Group events in both New York and London in October 2021. CEO Jack Dow said Grapevine enables TMCs to offer travelers hotels based on an amalgam of live trip, historical, profile and company policy data, including “where they or their colleagues have stayed before or the kind of hotel they like or people like them like.” Grapevine is in the process of adding personalized airport services, including parking, transfers and lounge and fast-track security access, with a plan to expand to offering bookings for relevant restaurants in 2022. Dow said advanced data structuring and machine learning are helping the cause and believes profile-driven personalization has the potential to perform better in a business travel context than elsewhere. “One of the big reasons we decided to focus on business travel rather than leisure is intent,” he said. “We know why someone is going somewhere and when, and we know that if they haven’t booked a hotel yet they have to stay somewhere. We know that if they are going to an airport, a high percentage will want airport parking. We know that if a plane is delayed they might want lounge access through to in-destination restaurants near their hotel. Rather than Amazon, which is essentially trying to find ways to get you to buy something, our service is discrete. We’re trying to offer you things you might like within the context of your trip. We’re not an upsell machine.” If travel managers want more profile-driven personalization, however, they may have to express their feelings a little louder. According to Trondent’s Wood, the issue has not been a “squeaky wheel” requirement that demands action by corporate travel service providers. Navarro is an embodiment of this observation. “Could profile management be better?” she asked. “Yes, but it’s visionary and strategic.” While it may not require an immediate fix, personalization through profile remains a promise she’s looking to the industry to deliver. “It’s probably something more in the three- to five-year plan.” Return to Understanding the Pandemic-Era Traveler Most Read Most Shared U.S. Tightens International Travel Protocols, Extends Mask Mandate Covid-19 Variant Omicron Induces Wave of Travel Restrictions Amex GBT Makes SPAC Deal to Go Public As Cvent Readies Public Move, CEO Aggarwal Assesses Hybrid Path Onriva CEO Ready to Emerge from 'Stealth Mode' Subscribe to Our Free Newsletters pixel2 BTN Daily BTN Global BTN Travel Management Travel Procurement BTN Europe Click Here for our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. Business Travel NewsABOUT USCONTACT USADVERTISEMORE INFORMATION Northstar Travel Group Copyright ©2021 Northstar Travel Media, LLC. All rights reserved.    100 Lighting Way Secaucus, NJ 07094-3626 USA | Telephone: (201) 902-2000 