Skip to main content Auburn Citizen ALERT TOP STORY COVID-19 New COVID-19 cases in December ahead of 2020 pace in Cayuga County Robert Harding Dec 6, 2021 Updated 2 hrs ago  Virus Outbreak CDC Aerosol A microscope image shows SARS-CoV-2 virus particles which causes COVID-19, isolated from a patient in the U.S., emerging from the surface of cells cultured in a lab. Photo provided by NIH Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Robert Harding New daily COVID-19 cases in Cayuga County are higher at this point in December than they were in 2020, an indication the county could see another sharp uptick in infections over the winter.  The Cayuga County Health Department reported 90 new cases over a three-day period, raising the total number of cases to 193 in December. Through the first six days of December in 2020, the county had 183 cases.  The surge is happening despite the availability of COVID-19 vaccines. Two of the vaccines, Moderna and Pfizer, received emergency use authorizations from federal regulators one year ago this month. More than 199 million Americans — 60% of the country's population — are fully vaccinated, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But in Cayuga County, the percentage of fully vaccinated residents (55%) lags behind the national average.  Positive COVID-19 cases have been found among the unvaccinated and vaccinated in Cayuga County. Based on the latest report from the local health department, 55 of the 90 new cases were unvaccinated, while 35 were fully vaccinated.  People are also reading… After trying to flee police, Syracuse man charged with Cayuga County rape Cayuga Nation selling marijuana at Union Springs business Cayuga County eclipses 10,000 COVID-19 cases Cayuga County-area police blotter: Nov. 29, 2021 There are a few positives in comparing this December spike to what happened last year. In December 2020, Cayuga County had its worst month of the pandemic in terms of confirmed COVID-19 cases (2,024). Active cases reached nearly 1,000 by the end of the month. The county reported increases in hospitalizations and 14 residents died of COVID-19.  NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private sector employers GOVT-AND-POLITICS NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private sector employers By MICHELLE L. PRICE and KAREN MATTHEWS Associated Press But this year, hospitalizations have actually decreased — from 13 to nine in one week — and one death has been reported.  Vaccine clinics The health department will hold two vaccination clinics later this week.  The first will run from 1 to 3 p.m. Friday at the Fingerlakes Mall Events Center, formerly the Spirit Halloween store. Johnson & Johnson (first shots and boosters) and Moderna booster shots will be offered at the clinic.  Another clinic will be held from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday at the mall's events center. First and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine will be available for children ages 5-11.  Registration is required for both clinics. More information on how to register can be found at cayugacounty.us/health.  The Cayuga Community Health Network also is helping to schedule appointments. To receive assistance with the registration process, call (315) 252-4212. Some town and village offices are also assisting residents to schedule appointments. Vaccines and boosters are also available at many local pharmacies, community health centers and physicians' offices. The state walk-in vaccination clinic continues to operate at the New York State Fairgrounds, as well. Online producer Robert Harding can be reached at (315) 282-2220 or robert.harding@lee.net. Follow him on Twitter @robertharding. Tags Coronavirus Covid-19 Medical Local-government Cayuga County Cayuga County Health Department Virus Pandemic Covid-19 Vaccine Concerned about COVID-19? Sign up now to get the most recent coronavirus headlines and other important local and national news sent to your email inbox daily. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Robert Harding Robert Harding Online producer and politics reporter I have been The Citizen's online producer and politics reporter since December 2009. I'm the author of the Eye on NY blog and write the weekly Eye on NY column that appears every Sunday in the print edition of The Citizen and online at auburnpub.com. Author facebook Author twitter Author email Most Popular Police: Five juveniles charged in Auburn vehicle theft Police: Five juveniles charged in Auburn vehicle theft Multiple juvenile defendants face charges after they were found last week by Auburn police in a stolen vehicle. Cayuga County-area police blotter: Dec. 3, 2021 Cayuga County-area police blotter: Dec. 3, 2021 Arrests in the Cayuga County area reported by Auburn Police Department, New York State Police and the Cayuga County Sheriff's Office. Police: Rochester man charged in burglaries in Auburn, three other counties Police: Rochester man charged in burglaries in Auburn, three other counties Following a four-month investigation by multiple law enforcement agencies, a Rochester man allegedly connected to burglaries in Auburn and thr… Auburn's 'dire' cat problem and the new group trying to solve it Auburn's 'dire' cat problem and the new group trying to solve it When Auburn City Councilor Terry Cuddy began knocking on doors this election season, there were a few concerns he expected to hear. Cayuga County-area police blotter: Nov. 29, 2021 Cayuga County-area police blotter: Nov. 29, 2021 Arrests in the Cayuga County area reported by Auburn Police Department, New York State Police and the Cayuga County Sheriff's Office. Cayuga Nation selling marijuana at Union Springs business Cayuga Nation selling marijuana at Union Springs business New York state is still months away from allowing recreational marijuana retailers to open, but one business in Cayuga County apparently doesn… After trying to flee police, Syracuse man charged with Cayuga County rape After trying to flee police, Syracuse man charged with Cayuga County rape A Syracuse man was arrested and charged with forcible rape stemming from a complaint Saturday afternoon in the town of Mentz. Cayuga County eclipses 10,000 COVID-19 cases Cayuga County eclipses 10,000 COVID-19 cases The Cayuga County Health Department reported 141 new COVID-19 cases over the previous five days, an amount that pushed total cases for the pan… Active COVID-19 cases jump above 300 again in Cayuga County Active COVID-19 cases jump above 300 again in Cayuga County For the first time since mid-September, the number of Cayuga County residents with active cases of the coronavirus is above 300. Skaneateles distiller wins 'Moonshiners' reality show competition Skaneateles distiller wins 'Moonshiners' reality show competition The humble town of Skaneateles is now home to a master distiller. Watch Now: Related Video NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers Nobel medals distributed in Washington Nobel medals distributed in Washington Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Auburn Citizen     e-Edition Obituaries Classifieds Jobs Real Estate Sites & Partners News Sports Opinion Blogs Lake Life Entertainment Multimedia Calendar Services Activate your digital subscription Contact Us Delivery Services Subscribe Place an Ad Submit an announcement Submit an event Submit a letter Work here Become a carrier © Copyright 2021 The Citizen, 25 Dill Street Auburn,NY | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 