Drink Me! Tea Room’s vegan and gluten-free bites find success amid pandemic opening
Georgann YaraSpecial for the Arizona Business Gazette









A trip to London and partaking in the tradition of afternoon tea were the inspiration for Melissa Harlan’s post-corporate world professional life. 

Harlan excitedly started composing the business plan for her Drink Me! Tea Room on the flight home in 2019. She had it all worked out and set to go.

Then, the pandemic halted Harlan’s intentions just as swiftly as it did international travel. Delayed but undeterred, Harlan pushed the opening of her vegan and gluten-free Tempe tea room back a few months, into July 2020.

Harlan admitted, the timing still wasn’t ideal.

“It wasn’t like, ‘Oh yeah, that would be a great idea,’” Harlan said as she let out a hearty laugh. 

But her contemporary twist on an old world tradition proved to be a fantastic concept for customers craving a calming break from the usual grind.

What makes Drink Me! different
Wonderland Afternoon Tea Treats at Drink Me Tea Room. Mandatory Credit in Tempe, Ariz. on Nov. 18, 2021.
Drink Me serves an average of 250 customers a week, Harlan said. Some seek her vegan and gluten-free bites. Many, however, follow neither a plant-based or gluten-free diet but come with friends who do, or they simply enjoy the tea experience from the sipping to the snacking. 

In addition to a variety of organic loose leaf teas, the menu boasts every noshable amenity expected at a full-fledged tea service: cookies, macarons, cakes, tarts and petite sandwiches. 

The majority of the recipes come from Harlan, who does follow a gluten-free diet and is the only vegan in her family. Her husband and children are typically on the taste-testing end of her experimentations. 

“If I can get recipes passed through them or if they can’t tell the difference, then I’m pretty confident I can please other folks that are not vegan or gluten-free,” Harlan said. 

Harlan’s staff is a mix of vegan and non-vegan eaters so they are also a good source of honest feedback.

Harlan has honed her ability to make any dish plant-based and gluten-free. Her egg salad sandwich is tofu-based and her chickpea chicken salad mirrors a traditional chicken salad sandwich. She incorporates egg substitutes and an olive-oil based butter. 

“It is so fantastic, people ask if it’s real butter. The whole plant-based food industry has come so far, so substitutions are much easier than they were five years ago,” Harlan said. 

Harlan offers monthly themed events like Nightmare Before Christmas Literary Tea and Winter Wonderland Team. Harlan also hosts special-tea cocktail parties and other tea-inspired celebrations.

Alice Tea at Drink Me Tea Room in Tempe, Ariz. on Nov. 18, 2021.
Harlan’s venue has a growing audience. While 21 million Americans are either sensitive to gluten or have celiac disease, according to Beyond Celiac, roughly 30% of Americans willingly avoid gluten, according to CNET. Also, the vegan market is projected to be worth 24.3 billion by 2026, according to Market Watch. And a Nielson report found that 39% of people who aren’t vegan actively try to incorporate more plant-based foods into their diets. 

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
Offering guests plant-based and gluten-free food was part of Harlan’s business model from the start. She knew how difficult it is to find those options. 

“Places have vegan or gluten-free (items) but rarely is that combination available. For me, that struggle is ongoing and I know I’m not the only one,” she said. “A lot of modifications exclude people… they can’t have scones or cake so half of the plate is fruit. I don’t want people to feel like they’re missing out on anything.” 

Wonderland Afternoon Tea Treats - Meringue Mushrooms at Drink Me Tea Room in Tempe, Ariz. on Nov. 18, 2021.
Kimberly Cawthon, one of Harlan’s first regulars, falls into this category. Cawthon, who is vegan and gluten-free, follows a lot of restaurants and food bloggers and saw a social media post touting Drink Me. The Scottsdale resident headed over the next day.

“I was so compelled. I sat and ordered everything and had the best time,” Cawthon said. 

Since then, Cawthon stops in two or three times a month, including the monthly theme events. She loves every dish Harlan offers, with her favorites being the lemon curd tart and key lime tart. The Earl Grey Creme and Lady Grey are her favorite teas. 

Cawthon understands how special tea rooms are but appreciates that, unlike the few in Arizona that are very formal, Drink Me is modern and has become a place for her to relax. 

“It’s been pretty much life-changing. It’s a beautiful, gorgeous space where you get to indulge in these little morsels and not get a stomach ache, itch or feel like trash afterward,” Cawthon said. “It’s a little oasis in the middle of a hectic day.” 

Social media leads to slow but steady growth
Melissa Harlan, owner of Drink Me Tea Room in Tempe, Ariz. on Nov. 18, 2021.
Harlan knew her nearly 20-year corporate career was about to end but did not know what she would do next. 

After she was so taken by the tea rooms in London, she wanted to bring the same experience to her neighborhood. Her future plans and how she would use her severance package become clear. 

When the pandemic threw a wrench into her original opening date, Harlan regrouped and opened Drink Me’s doors a few months later in the middle of summer. But Covid-19 still created a dark cloud. At first, full days went by without a single person walking in. 

“It was me and my kitchen staff and we had scones and cookies made, but no customers,” Harlan recalled. “I just kept thinking, it’s going to happen. People will learn about us and will feel more comfortable about coming out.” 

It happened slowly. As fall approached, those who discovered the tea room kept returning. It became a spot for small celebrations. Harlan’s whimsical decor and fun visuals were a natural backdrop for social media posts. 

In Phoenix area, 2 out of 5 kids risk a DCS call
Is there a Christmas tree shortage in Phoenix?
Thanksgiving weekend saw more extreme DUIs than in past 2 years
Some Arizona districts plan to make face masks optional
When guests posted photos of their memorable occasions and finally getting together with those they love and care about after months of distance, those were shared virtually and as a result, piqued interest in the tea room. 

Over time, Harlan had first-timers drop in all because of a social media post. A TikTok video went viral and website traffic went up 500% in one day. The popularity sparked Harlan’s policy to require reservations.

Harlan did not anticipate this, especially considering the shakiness around her opening. But she realized the responsibility she took on with her menu. Harlan understands the negative connotation that can come with the V-word. Her mission is to break beyond any previous unsavory encounters and show how good plant-based and gluten-free food can be.

“Some people hear ‘vegan’ and they are totally out. But, we win them over,” she said. “We definitely want to represent the community well in what we are doing.” 

Customers tell Harlan about how they are finally able to order the delicious looking treats that they had always envied on the plates of neighboring diners, or being able to enjoy food without worry about feeling ill afterward. 

“I see parents with kids with allergies that come in and they are so grateful. They say, ‘I don’t have to tell my child no, they can’t have a piece of cake,’” Harlan said. “The most rewarding part is connecting with people. I enjoy meeting our guests and hearing their stories.”

What: Drink Me! Tea Room

Where: 1730 E. Warner Road, Tempe

Employees: 12

Interesting stat: 21 million Americans are either sensitive to gluten or have celiac disease, according to Beyond Celiac, a non-profit dedicated to raising awareness of celiac disease.

Details: 602-206-5469, drinkmetearoom.com