News
News
Local News
Coronavirus
Election
Business
National News
Pennsylvania News
Sports
Sports
High School Sports
Philadelphia 76ers
Philadelphia Eagles
Philadelphia Flyers
Philadelphia Phillies
Union
Things to Do
Things to Do
Weekend
Restaurants Food and Drink
Movies
Music and Concerts
TV Listings
Comics
Puzzles
Opinion
Obituaries
Classifieds
Classifieds
Jobs
Public Notices
Tools
Contact Us
Contests
Gasbuddy
Subscribe
Log in
Daily Local
Subscribe
Log in
61°F
LATEST HEADLINES
West Goshen mobile home residents to officials: Don’t kick us out
Jonathan Zang and Judi Adams want to continue to live at West Goshen Mobile Home Park. 
(BILL RETTEW-MEDIANEWS GROUP) 
Jonathan Zang and Judi Adams want to continue to live at West Goshen Mobile Home Park. (BILL RETTEW-MEDIANEWS GROUP)
By BILL RETTEW | wrettew@dailylocal.com | Daily Local News
PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 2:33 p.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 2:49 p.m.
WEST GOSHEN — There is no place like home.

For Lola Soriano, her mobile home in West Goshen Mobile Home Park is more than just a place to rest her head and protect her from the elements, but also from where she runs a housekeeping business.

Soriano’s business and home life is threatened.


About 80 residents turned out Saturday morning to preserve the status quo at West Goshen Mobile Home Park. (BILL R . . .
Author
Bill Rettew | Reporter
Bill Rettew is a 20 year veteran reporter who enjoys being the eyes and ears of the community. As a staff writer for the Daily Local News he covers events, politics and the people of the Greater West Chester Area. The Chester County native’s favorite part of his beat is writing the weekly Sunday column, “Small Talk.”
wrettew@dailylocal.com
Sign up for email newsletters

SUBSCRIBE
Follow Us
Most PopularMOST POPULAR
In Chester County courtroom, the sound of silence
In Chester County courtroom, the sound of silence
Four firefighters hurt responding to alarm in Sadsbury Township
Four firefighters hurt responding to alarm in Sadsbury Township
Guide to some of the best Christmas light displays in Chester County
Guide to some of the best Christmas light displays in Chester County
Christmas parade returns to Coatesville with string bands, Miss Pennsylvania and high school marching bands
Christmas parade returns to Coatesville with string bands, Miss Pennsylvania and high school marching bands
West Goshen mobile home residents to officials: Don’t kick us out
West Goshen mobile home residents to officials: Don't kick us out
CCIU Learning Center grows Horticulture program with new state-of-the-art center
CCIU Learning Center grows Horticulture program with new state-of-the-art center
COVID outbreak on cruise ship approaching New Orleans
COVID outbreak on cruise ship approaching New Orleans
Trial opens for Oxford man in Cochranville carjacking murder
Trial opens for Oxford man in Cochranville carjacking murder
Coatesville man gets prison for stealing pandemic funds
Coatesville man gets prison for stealing pandemic funds
It’s official: Holiday season arrives in West Chester as thousands turn out for tree lighting
It's official: Holiday season arrives in West Chester as thousands turn out for tree lighting
TRENDING NATIONALLY
Jussie Smollett’s Legal Team Begins Defense At Actor’s Trial For Allegedly Staging And Reporting A Phony Hate Crime
Joel Osteen’s Megachurch Confirms Stash Of Money Found In Bathroom Wall
Prosecutor Announces Charges Against Parents Of Oxford Shooting Suspect
He’s Been Building A Castle In The Colorado Mountains For Over 50 Years. What Happens Next?
After Stunning Testimony, Where Does Elizabeth Holmes Stand And What Comes Next?
Sponsored
1/5
Senior Living | Search Ads
Holiday Frost Fair coming to Pottsgrove Manor on Dec. 12
Holiday Frost Fair coming to Pottsgrove Manor on Dec. 12
Manufacturing job fair to be held in Pottstown
Manufacturing job fair to be held in Pottstown
Leadership class teams up for fitness obstacle course at the Althouse Arboretum
Leadership class teams up for fitness obstacle course at the Althouse Arboretum
SPONSORED LINKS
MORE IN NEWS
WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. will stage a diplomatic boycott of the upcoming Winter Olympics in Beijing t o protest Chinese human rights abuses, the White House confirmed Monday, a move that China has vowed to greet with “firm countermeasures.”
US plans diplomatic boycott of Beijing Winter Olympics
London Britain automotive business celebrates 10th anniversary
London Britain automotive business celebrates 10th anniversary
A pipeline developer will dredge part of a contaminated lake and pay more than $4 million for spilling thousands of gallons of drilling fluids at a popular state park outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania state officials announced Monday in a settlement that will allow construction to resume.
Sunoco ordered to dredge lake, pay $4M over pipeline spill
Average US price of gas drops 3 cents over 2 weeks, to $3.46
Average US price of gas drops 3 cents over 2 weeks, to $3.46
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
About Us
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertising Sections
Classifieds
Jobs
Public Notices
How to Advertise
MediaNews Group Advertising
Place A Classified Ad
Advertising Inquiry
How To Find Us On Other Platforms
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
iOS App
Android App
Customer Service
Subscriber Services
Subscribe
Submit News
Announcement Forms
Partners
The Times Herald
The Mercury
Delaware County Daily Times
Patriot Item
The Reporter
The Trentonian
Copyright 2021 MediaNews Group, Inc.
Terms of Use
Privacy
Accessibility
Cookie Policy
Arbitration
MediaNews Group
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Logout
Close 
WE NOTICED YOU'RE BLOCKING ADS
Please disable or subscribe to continue reading.
Cancel anytime
Already a Subscriber? Login or Activate
PREMIUM
Ad-Free Digital
99¢ 3-month trial
Then $4 per week
Unlimited Ad-Free Access
2X Faster Page Loads
e-Edition Replica
SUBSCRIBE﻿
MOST POPULAR
Monthly Digital
99¢ 3-month trial
Then $3 per week
Unlimited Digital Access
e-Edition Replica
SUBSCRIBE
PRINT
Print + Digital
Choose delivery days
Offers available
Unlimited Digital Access
Home Delivery
e-Edition Replica
SUBSCRIBE
No, thanks.

