News
News
Local News
Coronavirus
Crime and Public Safety
Business
National News
Pennsylvania News
Sports
Sports
High School Sports
Philadelphia 76ers
Philadelphia Eagles
Philadelphia Flyers
Philadelphia Phillies
Philadelphia Union
Things to Do
Things to Do
Entertainment
Restaurants Food and Drink
Movies
Music and Concerts
TV Listings
Comics
Puzzles
Opinion
Obituaries
Classifieds
Classifieds
Jobs
Public Notices
Tools
Contact Us
Contests
Gasbuddy
Subscribe
Log in
NEWSCRIME AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Gun image posted to social media leads to quick attention of Haverford school officials
Haverford High School is returning to a fully virtually setting as number of COVID-19 cases spike.
PETE BANNAN – MEDIANEWS GROUP Haverford High School is returning to a fully virtually setting as number of COVID-19 cases spike.
By PETE BANNAN | Pbannan@Mainlinemedianews.com | The Delaware County Daily Times
December 6, 2021 at 11:25 a.m.
HAVERFORD — In a sign that school districts take any threat of guns to school safety seriously following the recent school shooting in Michigan, Haverford School District officials alerted parents of an incident that occurred in the district over the weekend involving a student reportedly posting a picture of a gun on social media.

On Saturday officials at Haverford High School received an anonymous report about the picture of a gun through the Safe2Say reporting system according to a notification sent to all high school parents on Sunday.

Safe2Say is a youth violence prevention program run by the Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General with support from violence prevention advocates that teaches youth and adults how to recognize warning signs and signals, especially within social media, from individuals who may be a threat to themselves or others. Students can use an app to alert officials of a possible threat.

Haverford Police responded to the home of the student and determined the situation not to be a threat. Police met with the student and parents who were cooperative officials said.

The police and school officials said the student was apologetic for any stress that the post caused and deleted it from social media.

“Thank you to the students that continue to report any concerning incidents,” said Haverford Principal Pete Donaghy. “The Police and HHS Administration will continue to investigate all concerning issues immediately.”

On Monday police were at the school to show their support of all staff and students.

Author
Pete Bannan | reporter
Pete Bannan has been a reporter/photographer in the Delaware Valley for DigitalMedia Group since 1995 covering general assignment news and sports on the Main Line as well as Chester and Delaware Counties. Bannan is a Delaware County native and a graduate of the Temple University with a degree in journalism.
Pbannan@Mainlinemedianews.com
Sign up for email newsletters

SUBSCRIBE
Follow Us
Most PopularMOST POPULAR
Christine Flowers: A consequential life, cut short far too soon
Christine Flowers: A consequential life, cut short far too soon
Norwood man’s festive holiday lawn display helps to stock shelves at Loaves and Fishes
Norwood man’s festive holiday lawn display helps to stock shelves at Loaves and Fishes
McCaffery: Turning toward retirement, Mike Ricci still doing Garnet Valley proud
McCaffery: Turning toward retirement, Mike Ricci still doing Garnet Valley proud
Television: Michael Smerconish gets first crack at fired Chris Cuomo’s time on CNN
Television: Michael Smerconish gets first crack at fired Chris Cuomo's time on CNN
Eleven Union players on COVID list on eve of conference final
Eleven Union players on COVID list on eve of conference final
PIAA Football: Garnet Valley’s magical season ends on rival Ridley’s field
PIAA Football: Garnet Valley's magical season ends on rival Ridley's field
Community call for justice for Fanta Bility
Community call for justice for Fanta Bility
Gun image posted to social media leads to quick attention of Haverford school officials
Gun image posted to social media leads to quick attention of Haverford school officials
Lights go on at Festival of Lights and Delco Holiday Village
Lights go on at Festival of Lights and Delco Holiday Village
Lace up the skates: Pop-up ice rink and winter village coming to Newtown Square
Lace up the skates: Pop-up ice rink and winter village coming to Newtown Square
TRENDING NATIONALLY
Jussie Smollett’s Legal Team Begins Defense At Actor’s Trial For Allegedly Staging And Reporting A Phony Hate Crime
Joel Osteen’s Megachurch Confirms Stash Of Money Found In Bathroom Wall
Prosecutor Announces Charges Against Parents Of Oxford Shooting Suspect
He’s Been Building A Castle In The Colorado Mountains For Over 50 Years. What Happens Next?
After Stunning Testimony, Where Does Elizabeth Holmes Stand And What Comes Next?
MORE IN NEWS
POTTSTOWN — A Pottstown man who was charged with fatally shooting another man he did not know claimed he did so because he was angry after the victim was speeding in a vehicle and nearly struck him, according to investigators. Gerald Scott Ramos, 43, of the 400 block of North Evans Street, was awaiting arraignment […]
Pottstown man charged in fatal shooting after ‘supposed speeding incident’
WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. will stage a diplomatic boycott of the upcoming Winter Olympics in Beijing t o protest Chinese human rights abuses, the White House confirmed Monday, a move that China has vowed to greet with “firm countermeasures.”
US plans diplomatic boycott of Beijing Winter Olympics
Average US price of gas drops 3 cents over 2 weeks, to $3.46
Average US price of gas drops 3 cents over 2 weeks, to $3.46
If a year can be accused of bait-and-switch, 2021 is fair game.
2021’s notable moments on TV: Capitol riot, ‘Rust,’ Shatner
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
About Us
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertising Sections
Classifieds
Jobs
Public Notices
How to Advertise
MediaNews Group Advertising
Place A Classified Ad
Advertising Inquiry
How To Find Us On Other Platforms
Sign Up For Newsletters
E-Edition
iOS App
Android App
Customer Service
Subscriber Services
Subscribe
Submit News
Announcement Forms
Partners
The Times Herald
Daily Local News
The Mercury
Patriot Item
The Reporter
The Trentonian
Copyright 2021 MediaNews Group, Inc.
Terms of Use
Privacy
Accessibility
Cookie Policy
Arbitration
MediaNews Group
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Close 