
Family and friends remember Samuel Teolis, a true pillar of the Ellwood City community
Nicholas Vercilla
Ellwood City Ledger








Former Ellwood City Mayor Samuel Teolis passed away on Nov. 25 at the age of 95. He is being remembered by family and friends for all that he has done for the community.
ELLWOOD CITY — There were many things that Samuel Teolis did to volunteer his time and service to Ellwood City and the surrounding community.

However, one of the things that Teolis was well-known to do was lead the cake walk, with his wife, Anita, at many different weddings.

Teolis’s son, Samuel A. Teolis, said it happened so many times over the years that people used to say you weren’t officially married until the cake walk took place.

Described by his son and many others as a true Ellwoodian and an American patriot, Samuel Teolis, 95, a pillar of the Ellwood City community, passed away peacefully on Thanksgiving, Nov. 25, surrounded by his family.

Since his passing, many people online and in-person have taken the time to not only offer their sympathies to his family, but also share their memories and stories of Teolis over the years.

“Sam was a great guy and friend. He will be missed, and I’m forever grateful for his friendship,” said Ellwood City Mayor Anthony Court. “We spent a lot of time together, and I was so honored to be in his company.”

Added Court: “RIP buddy, and God bless you on a job well done.”

In an interview with The Ledger, Samuel A. Teolis spoke about the passion his father had for the community and the legacy that he leaves behind.

“He was definitely a dedicated family man. He loved his family, loved his job,” the son said. “He was a kind, gentle soul, compassionate.”

Obituary: Samuel Teolis' obituary 

Giving back to Ellwood City
Teolis was born on a farm in Shenango Township to the late Domenic and Flora (Innocent) Teolis. He was the youngest of eight children.

Samuel A. Teolis said when his father was around 18 months old, his father passed away, leading his mother to move the family to Ellwood.

Teolis said the people of the borough took great care of his father and his family over the years, leading him to fall in love with the town and its people right back. He graduated from Lincoln High School in 1944.

Over the years, the elder Teolis gave back and served the town greatly.

He served on the Ellwood City Area School Board from 1957-63, where he was instrumental in building the Lincoln High School cafeteria and giving employees funeral leave.

He helped form the local American Red Cross blood bank in 1960, and he later served as Ellwood City mayor from 1965-70.

Dennis Tyler said when he was growing up in the Pittsburgh Circle area of Ellwood, one year during a snowstorm when Teolis was mayor, he remembers Teolis going around with a snowblower clearing a path through the whole neighborhood.

“My dad would look out and say, ‘he’s got my vote,’” Tyler said.

Samuel A. Teolis said: “He was definitely a public servant through everything he has done. Just a dedicated servant to the community and the surrounding areas. He just gave and gave and gave.”

More: Samuel Teolis honored for lifetime of service 

Giving back to veterans
Following high school, Teolis enlisted with the U.S. Army on Nov. 20, 1944, and served with the 101st Infantry Replacement Company in the 3rd Army and received a Bronze Star for the Central Europe campaign. He then reenlisted with the Army for an extra year in November 1945, and was transferred to the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre, and served in the Occupation of Korea until his discharge in December 1946 with the 7th Infantry Division.

Samuel A. Teolis said his father made it one of his life’s goals to help military veterans and their families to receive every benefit that they can.

“He was always an advocate for the veterans,” Teolis said. “He fought for benefits for them; made sure the widows of veterans got everything that was given to them from the county level to the federal level, because he always said any of these guys gave up two to four years of their lives to serve, and they deserve every benefit that they can get.”

Sam Teolis was one of the founding members of the local Ellwood veterans honor guard and served in many military funerals over the years.

“Sam was a true pillar of the community and a one of kind,” said Lauranne Ferrara. “The passion he had for Ellwood City and the veterans was unmatched.”

Added Ferrara: “He and my dad were good friends and spend hours having discussions about Ellwood and a myriad of other things.”

More: Former Ellwood Mayor Teolis given proclamation during American Legion picnic

Helping others through their grief
In 1956, after working at different funeral homes in Ellwood and New Castle, Teolis started the Samuel Teolis Funeral Home and Crematory Inc. in Ellwood.

He also served as deputy coroner for Lawrence County from 1956-1970, and again from 1983-2006.

Samuel A. Teolis said his father did everything that he could to help families and friends in their times of grief, going above and beyond what a normal funeral director would do.

He said one of his mottos was to serve how he would want to be served.

“He was a beautiful person inside and out,” said Maggie Leymarie. “He helped our family when my sister and dad passed away as if he was a part of our family. We are forever grateful to him.”

Lisa Vincik said Teolis gave her first opportunity in working with the deceased as a beautician, showing her great respect and kindness.

However, Samuel A. Teolis said starting and operating a funeral home was not easy, on top of raising a family as well.

He said his father didn’t take many vacations until later in life, and worked in barbershops for over 30 years in Ellport and Ellwood City to help pay the bills.

Teolis previously became a licensed barber in 1948, owned a barbershop in Wampum from 1954-55, and graduated from the Pittsburgh School of Mortuary Science in 1950.

A great family man and friend
Samuel A. Teolis said his father loved and worked hard for his late wife, Anita, and their children, and loved all of his family and spending time with them over the years.

He met Anita at a dance at the Sons of Italy, and were married on Jan. 18, 1958. They were married until Anita died on Oct. 20, 2010.

“She was his pillar of strength keeping the business going,” Samuel A. Teolis said.

Teolis said he and his family have greatly appreciated the outpouring of love and support they have gotten from the community, stating they are finding out new stories about him as they go along.

“He was a wonderful man, and everyone has a ‘Sam Teolis’ story,” said Chris MacDonald.

Becky Lagana said Teolis had the heart of Jesus, and had empathy and compassion for everyone and lived by example.

Many people said Teolis had great knowledge about the area, with many people, including Katie Nagel, remembering hearing his stories and taking others to see his collection of memorabilia in his private museum.

“The world was a better place with him in it. My entire family knew him. He was so good to all of us. He will be missed,” said Sheila Patterson.

Many online said Teolis, no matter what, would never forget who you were and would remember having a conversation with you.

“My pappy’s been waiting for him up there for a long time,’ said LeeAnn Houk. “Ellwood has truly lost a wonderful treasure.”

Samuel A. Teolis said everybody who met his father knew exactly who the kind of person he was, stating everyone had a conversation with him, and there weren’t many people who didn’t know about him because he shared everything.

“He put himself out there. He loved his church. He loved his business. He loved serving the community,” Teolis said.

Nicholas Vercilla is a staff reporter for the Beaver County Times and Ellwood City Ledger. He can be reached at nvercilla@gannett.com.


