Login
Home
Olympics
E-Paper
Get App
Newsletter
Puzzles & Comics
Obituaries
Celebrations
Public Notices
Contact Us
Subscribe
Classifieds
Community
News
Opinion
Shop
Sports
Valley Voices
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Pearl Harbor bombing was just a movie day for sophomore; soon he found himself serving in Navy	
Pearl Harbor bombing was just a movie day for sophomore; soo…
Americans likely had varying reactions on Dec. 7, 1941, when…

ALERT TOP STORY URGENT BREAKING
Threat to Greenville schools determined to be false
By MELISSA KLARIC Herald Staff Writer 7 hrs ago 
Greenville Trojans logo
GREENVILLE HIGH

    
GREENVILLE – Greenville-West Salem police determined that a rumored threat against Greenville School District was false.

The school notified police Sunday night that some parents were upset about social media activity that referred to a threat of violence at Greenville High School Monday, said Cpl. Wes Carson, the school resource officer.

"Officers spoke to numerous students last night by going to their homes," Carson said. "We take this very seriously."

Carson said after the overnight investigation, Greenville police decided that the threat was not credible and there was no reason for concern.

Carson compared the threat rumor to the telephone game.

"I think that's what happened here," Carson said. "Someone says one thing and social media blows it completely out of portion."

He said his fellow officers did an excellent job of investigating the case and closing it by morning.

The rumored social media post stated that someone was going to bring guns to school. Officers, however, could not find the post.

Carson said he doesn't know if the post actually exists, but if he finds out it does, police could file charges.

"I'm still in the process of working with the school to find the original alleged post," Carson said, adding that he can serve a search warrant to the website. "I will find that post and people will be facing several charges."

He said police will not put up with threats, real or fabricated.

"If someone is going to act like this, they're going to pay the price," Carson said.

Follow Melissa Klaric on twitter @HeraldKlaric or email her at mklaric@sharonherald.com

Tags
Threat School Police Education Faculty Greenville Parents Page School District Facebook Wes Carson Social Media Student Officer Carson
TRENDING VIDEO
Conversation
FOLLOW THIS CONVERSATION TO BE NOTIFIED WHEN NEW COMMENTS ARE POSTEDFOLLOW

Jump to log in or sign Up
Start the conversation
LOG IN | SIGN UP

ALL COMMENTS

newest

All Comments
 Start the conversation
Powered by

Melissa Klaric
Melissa Klaric
Melissa has been a news reporter for The Herald since 2013, covering breaking news, northern Mercer County, Sharon City schools and education. She is a 1992 graduate of Youngstown State University with a Bachelor of Arts in communications.

Author facebook Author twitter Author email
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Former Jackson Township. employee indicted for embezzling $170,000
Tomko reels in 50-inch muskie at Pymatuning Lake
Drug Task Force chief suspended after prostitution charges
2 developments could spur economic activity along I-80, Route 19
Home destroyed in Greenville fire
Passenger in Pine Township plane crash dies of burn injuries
Exploring potential Penn State defensive coordinator candidates
Woman injured in 2-car crash on Route 18 in Pymatuning Township
Sharon man dies in hit-and-run crash in Hubbard Township
Man given lengthy sentence for attempted murder
NEW GENERATION PODCAST
New Generation Podcast
You are now listening to the sounds of the New Generation. A podcast created for those who desire a new way of gaining information rather than reading a traditional newspaper. In our show we will discuss everything from sports, pop culture, politics, and local news. To stay up to date on our latest episodes every week be sure to follow us on your favorite podcast service. And don’t worry, we keep it short.

00:0000:00
Episode 35: Hermitage- Wheatland merger: New Generation hosts Tanner Mondok, and Janeé Avery sits down with Gary Hinkson, Hermitage city manager, and Ron Viglio, Wheatland mayor, to discuss the possible Hermitage-Wheatland merger.
Episode 34: Feeding the multitudes: Kennedy Catholic annual Thanksgiving food drive: New Generation hosts Tanner Mondok and Janeé Avery sit down with Kennedy Catholic seniors Tom Malvar, Marissa Winland, Jude Yurisic and Ashley Wood to discuss the school's annual Thanksgiving food drive. Sister Margaret Pellerite, who joins the show later in the episode, started the food drive more than 40 years ago to help feed families in the Shenango Valley during the holiday season.
NEW GENERATION SPORTS REPORT PODCAST
New Generation Sports Report Podcast
00:0000:00
Sports Report #12: Farrell is one win away from competing for a state championship. This week on the New Generation Sports Report we take a look at their semifinal opponent, Serra Catholic, and talk about what has made Farrell's playoff run so successful so far.
AP NEWS
 +2Lawyer: Artist didn't know Michigan parents stayed in studio
NEWS
Lawyer: Artist didn't know Michigan parents stayed in studio
22 hrs ago
A Detroit-area artist whose studio was where the parents of the Oxford High School student charged in a deadly shooting were found by police is cooperating with authorities and didn’t know the couple had stayed overnight, his attorney said Sunday.

 +8Bob Dole, a man of war, power, zingers and denied ambition
NEWS
Bob Dole, a man of war, power, zingers and denied ambition
Dec 5, 2021
WASHINGTON — Bob Dole willed himself to walk again after paralyzing war wounds, ran for Congress with a right arm too damaged to shake hands, and rose through the Senate ranks to become a long-serving Republican leader and tough and tireless champion of his party.

 +2Plumber's find possibly tied to 2014 Texas megachurch theft
NEWS
Plumber's find possibly tied to 2014 Texas megachurch theft
Dec 3, 2021
HOUSTON — For more than seven years, no one has known what happened to $600,000 in checks and cash that was stolen from a safe at Pastor Joel Osteen’s Houston megachurch, which has one of the largest congregations in the country.

 +8Senate passes stopgap funding bill, avoiding shutdown
NEWS
Senate passes stopgap funding bill, avoiding shutdown
Dec 2, 2021
WASHINGTON — The Senate passed a stopgap spending bill Thursday that avoids a short-term shutdown and funds the federal government through Feb. 18 after leaders defused a partisan standoff over federal vaccine mandates. The measure now goes to President Joe Biden to be signed into law.

MORE COVERAGE 
COVID-19
NEWS
US panel backs first-of-a-kind COVID-19 pill from Merck
 +2Nov 30, 2021
WASHINGTON — A panel of U.S. health advisers on Tuesday narrowly backed a closely watched COVID-19 pill from Merck, setting the stage for a likely authorization of the first drug that Americans could take at home to treat the coronavirus.

COVID-19
Ranked-choice voting program offered
Oct 11, 2021
Grove City College math professor Dr. Kelly Bonomo will talk about ranked choice voting Saturday during a Mercer County League of Women Voters program.



WEATHER
DAYPRECIPTEMP
MON42%
23°54°
TUE7%
23°30°
WED34%
19°33°
THU7%
33°38°
FRI43%
47°48°
SAT87%
34°64°
SUN24%
27°41°
STOCKS

Market Data by TradingView
NEWSPAPER ADS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

Business MarqueeSay Happy Birthday to Someone Here. Call 724-981-6100 and ask for Classifiedsundefined
SPONSORED
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
sharonherald.com
52 S. Dock St
Sharon, PA 16146
Phone: (724) 981-6100
Email: newsroom@sharonherald.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 The Herald, 52 S. Dock St Sharon, PA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
