Welcome, Guest
Sign UpLog In
Home
News
Sports
Obits
Living
Business
Opinion
Multimedia
Classifieds
Digital Directory
+ More
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Hand bell choir concert slated
The St. Francis Hand Bell Choir will present their Christmas Concert at 6:30 p.m…

FEATURED
Festival of Lights illuminates McKean County Fairgrounds
By DANIELLA GRIESBAUM dgriesbaum@bradfordera.com Dec 4, 2021 
Lights
The Festival of Lights at McKean County Fairgrounds will be operating on weekends this month.

File photo
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
For the second year in a row, adjusting to the COVID-19 pandemic atmosphere, the McKean County Fair Association is currently hosting the Festival of Lights.

The Festival began on Nov. 26 and will continue through Dec. 23, from 5 to 9 p.m. every Friday and Saturday, and 5 to 8 p.m. on Sundays. On Wednesday, Dec. 22, the display will be lit up from 5 to 9 p.m. and Thursday, Dec. 23, the final day of the festival, will run from 5 to 9 p.m.

A woman who took a ride through the festival last week stated, “The Festival of Lights makes me think of a winter wonderland.” She continued with the suggestion that “every family needs to make their way to Smethport to drive through and experience the magic of the season. Festival of Lights is a great way to jump-start the festive feeling of this holiday season.”

The Festival of Lights is once again a drive-through event due to the pandemic. Christy Graham of the fair association has been working on plans to possibly add a walking area and display contest during future events. Any family or group interested in building, or putting together a Christmas-themed display for next year’s festival may contact Graham or Chuck Kohler at mckeanfol@gmail.com.

Although the name, Festival of Lights, implies the event is solely pertaining to lights and lighting decorations, according to Graham there will also be Christmas-themed wooden cut outs, live animals (on most evenings), a special mailbox for letters to Santa Claus — or letters can be directly given to Santa at the festival.

The holiday displays at the Festival of Lights were created and built by local community members and businesses.

“My favorite thing is seeing how happy the Festival of Lights makes people feel, and how happy the community is that the Festival of Lights is happening again,” Nancy Dart said.

This event is a drive-thru only event. The cost per vehicle is $10, and $25 for a bus.

For more information call or text Kohler at (814) 367-9591. Kohler stated that the Festival Lights is always looking for additional committee members, and any additional display suggestions for future events.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
4 remaining of 5
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

Tags
Festival Of Lights Advertising Post Transports Company Graham Festival Association Chuck Kohler Feel Display
reporter01
Author email
Trending Food Videos
Help Our Community
Please help local businesses by taking an online survey to help us navigate through these unprecedented times. None of the responses will be shared or used for any other purpose except to better serve our community. The survey is at: www.pulsepoll.com $1,000 is being awarded. Everyone completing the survey will be able to enter a contest to Win as our way of saying, "Thank You" for your time. Thank You!

News in your Inbox!

Ads to Go
Would you like to receive our ads to go? Sign Up Today!


Breaking News
Would you like to receive our breaking news? Sign Up Today!


Circulation Promotions and Contests
Would you like to receive notice about our circulation promotions and contests?  Sign Up Today!


Coronavirus Updates
Get the latest local and national news.


Daily Headlines
Would you like to receive our daily news? Sign Up Today!


Lifestyle
Would you like to receive our lifestyle headlines about food and wine, Bradford area living, local history and more? Sign Up Today!


Local Weather
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather.


Obituaries
Would you like to receive our Latest Obituary Notices? Signup today!


Sports
Would you like to receive our sports news? Sign Up Today!

Enter email address
Trending
South Kendall Crosby’s to close
Bradford physician Owens named chief medical officer
Lofton injury overshadows Bonnies win over Coppin State
Bear take lags as Pa. firearms season moves into 4th day
Kane man charged with stalking, harassing neighbor
Latest e-Edition
The Bradford Era
The Bradford Era
To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left.

Six-day home delivery for as little as $23.00/month
Includes our e-Edition at no extra cost!



Featured Jobs
Assistant Network/Systems Administrator - Multiple Positions
12.04.21Education, Training and Library, Hospital & Health Care, Gig Jobs
Endocrinologist Physician
12.04.21Hospital & Health Care
Director of Workforce Development
11.27.21Education, Training and Library
Dental Hygienist, Dental Assistant - Multiple Positions
11.26.21Hospital & Health Care
Middle School STEM Teacher
11.18.21Education, Training and Library, Gig Jobs
Mental Health Regional Director
11.17.21Hospital & Health Care
Electrical Operations Teacher
11.10.21Education, Training and Library
Yard/Receiving Worker
11.08.21Automotive, Operations, Logistics & Warehousing
RN - Multiple Positions
12.04.21Restaurant and Food Service, Hospital & Health Care
Featured Businesses
 
Find a local business
I'm looking for…
Latest Classfieids
AVEANNA HEALTHCARE NOW HIRING
 Updated 9 hrs ago
AMISH Mast Construction >Specializing in Metal Roofing > Decks >
 Updated 9 hrs ago
Real Estate Appraisals Michael DePalma (814) 598-2578
 Updated 9 hrs ago
Ads to Go
348924.pdf
348924.pdf
357628.pdf
357628.pdf
348924.pdf
348924.pdf
357628.pdf
357628.pdf
Stocks

Market Data by TradingView
Get in touch with The Bradford Era
Submit Content
Submit News
Letter to the Editor
Place Wedding Announcement
Advertise
Place Birth Announcement
Place Anniversary Announcement
Place Obituary Call (814) 368-3173
Subscribe
Start a Subscription
Delivery Issues
Contact Us

ILLINOIS
Ford County Record
Hancock Journal-Pilot
Hoopeston Chronicle
The Independent News
Iroquois Times-Republic
Journal-Republican
The News-Gazette
Rantoul Press
INDIANA
Fountain Co. Neighbor
Hartford City News-Times
Herald Journal
KV Post News
Lafayette Leader
Newton Co. Enterprise
Rensselaer Republican
Review-Republican
Winchester News-Gazette
IOWA
Atlantic News Telegraph
Audubon Advocate-Journal
Barr's Post Card News
Collector's Journal
Fayette County Union
Ft. Madison Daily Democrat
Independence Bulletin-Journal
Keokuk Daily Gate City
Oelwein Daily Register
Vinton Newspapers
Waverly Newspapers
MICHIGAN
Iosco County News-Herald
Ludington Daily News
Oceana's Herald-Journal
Oscoda Press
White Lake Beacon
NEW YORK
Finger Lakes Times
Olean Times Herald
Salamanca Press
PENNSYLVANIA
Bradford Era
Clearfield Progress
Courier Express
Free Press Courier
Jeffersonian Democrat
Leader Vindicator
Potter Leader-Enterprise
Reporter Argus
Tri County Sunday
The Wellsboro Gazette
© Copyright 2021 The Bradford Era, 43 Main St Bradford, PA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
