Greenwich Land Trust’s $2.2 million purchase keeps 8 acres ‘in good hands for generations to come’
Photo of Ken Borsuk
Ken Borsuk
Dec. 6, 2021
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Comments
The Greenwich Land Trust purchased 8 acres of land from Aquarion Water Co. on Cherry Valley Road near Lake Avenue for $2.2 million. The deal was announced Thursday, Dec. 2, 2021.
1
of
3
The Greenwich Land Trust purchased 8 acres of land from Aquarion Water Co. on Cherry Valley Road near Lake Avenue for $2.2 million. The deal was announced Thursday, Dec. 2, 2021.

Contributed photo / Greenwich Land Trust /

GREENWICH — The Greenwich Land Trust is adding another 8 acres of land to its holdings to preserve as open space after closing a deal with Aquarion Water Co. for $2.2 million.

Aquarion announced the sale of the land on Cherry Valley Road near Lake Avenue on Thursday. The nonprofit now protects 857 acres of woodlands, marshlands, orchards and meadows of open space land in town.

The new 8-acre purchase is adjacent to the 72 acres of land, known as Converse Brook Preserve, that the Greenwich Land Trust bought from Aquarion in 2020.

The more than 80 acres of protected land in the backcountry that will now “create a significant, continuous greenway, wildlife corridor and enhanced public access,” trust director Will Kies said.

“Greenwich Land Trust is extremely grateful to have the opportunity to conserve, protect and care for this beautiful property in perpetuity,” he said. “This addition to our Converse Brook Preserve will provide safe public access to the preserve while conserving important upland habitats.”

More News
Greenwich couple who met in Air Force are honored for...

Nonprofits invited to make case for $16M in COVID funds

The $2.2 million purchase was a “bargain sale,” according to Kies, coming in below the assessed value of the property. Peter Fazekas, Aquarion’s director of corporate communications, said the land was assessed at a value of $2.8 million.

“Aquarion accepted the GLT’s lower offer knowing that this land will be in good hands for generations to come,” Fazekas said.

The 8 acres of land is not located within an aquifer protection area, Aquarion said in a statement. It is not part of the public supply watershed so it will not be needed to provide water service to the region, Aquarion said.

“We are very excited to once again partner with the Greenwich Land Trust to support their mission of preserving open space,” Aquarion President Donald Morrissey said in the statement. “The additional acreage will be a resource that the Land Trust can preserve for future generations.”

The 72.271 acres that the Greenwich Land Trust purchased from Aquarion last year carried a price tag of $2 million, with $1 million coming from the town and $1 million coming from the land trust. That allocation required Representative Town Meeting approval. The new sale is with land trust money and did not require any town approvals.

“This sale is closed,” Kies said, adding that the focus is now on connecting the land and preserving its ecology.

At the time of the first sale, he said the land will be open for hiking, birding and taking nature walks on the larger 800-acre open space corridor that includes the land trust’s ’s 52-acre Westfall Preserve, 297-acre town-owned Babcock Preserve and the 453 acres of Aquarion properties that make up Rockwood and Putnam Reservoirs.

With the two purchases, Kies said it expands Converse Brook Preserve and makes it the Greenwich Land Trust’s largest preserve with just over 80 acres.

The “varied topography” of the land includes a steep slope made up of second-growth deciduous forest, shrubland, several ephemeral streams and a clearing that will be restored as a native meadow, the land trust said. The historic stone walls that crisscross the property will “serve as a gateway, enabling safe public access to Converse Brook Preserve,” the land trust said

The trust’s stewardship staff will work to integrate the new property into the trail system under development on the preserve, Kies said.

“This greenway strategically links important landscapes which connect critical habitat and increase ecological diversity. The conservation of larger blocks of undeveloped forest land is essential for the protection of wildlife, water quality and the ecological health of our community,” the land trust said in a statement.

“Our new acquisition follows on from the successful 2020 public-private partnership between GLT and the town,” Greenwich Land Trust board President Camille Broderick said. “We at GLT value our place in the Greenwich community. Through conservation, we seek to welcome the public to explore nature’s treasures.”