CT official: Omicron may be 10 times as contagious as delta COVID variant
Photo of Ed Stannard
Ed Stannard
Dec. 6, 2021
Facebook
Twitter
Email
In terms of booster shots, Connecticut numbers have not jumped substantially in recent weeks, despite broader eligibility and an increasing threat of infections in the community.
In terms of booster shots, Connecticut numbers have not jumped substantially in recent weeks, despite broader eligibility and an increasing threat of infections in the community.

Justin Sullivan / TNS
NEW HAVEN — It is everyone’s responsibility to get themselves vaccinated and to get boosters, because, while the omicron variant of COVID-19 is on everyone’s mind, cases that are filling hospitals are still the delta variant, state and federal officials said Monday.

Commissioner Manisha Juthani of the state Department of Public Health said omicron appears to be 10 times more contagious than delta, but it still is unknown whether it causes the same severity of sickness.

There has been one confirmed case of omicron in the state, in Hartford County, she said.

“We know that there was a family that is affected, and so there are other members of the family that are in the process of being tested, a few have been symptomatic, so whether it is omicron or not, we don’t know that yet,” Juthani said.

“But I think it would be fair to assume that there have been already two people of one family and there are other members of the same household that it likely will be the same,” she said.

She said the confirmed case was a an in his 60s who had traveled to New York.

She and Lt. Gov. Susan Bysiewicz said while New York Mayor Bill DiBlasio has mandated all private sector employees be vaccinated by Dec. 27, they were not aware of similar discussions being held in Connecticut. Gov. Ned Lamont, who attended the press conference, had left before the question could be asked.

The threat of the omicron variant had arrived quickly in Connecticut, raising alarm over how contagious the new strain is and what this could mean for the trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic amid already high numbers.

In terms of booster shots, Connecticut numbers have not jumped substantially in recent weeks, despite broader eligibility and an increasing threat of infections in the community.

The threat of the new omicron variant and increasing rates of COVID have health officials hopeful that the rates are poised to sharply rise.

While little is known about the variant, Gov. Ned Lamont, who appeared on “Face the Nation” early Sunday, said he believes Connecticut residents are doing the right thing and new restrictions are not needed at this time.

“They don’t need me pushing. But people of a certain age, stay out of contagious situations. We just don’t know enough about this variant. Be careful,” Lamont said on Face the Nation.

But given Connecticut’s location between major urban areas like New York and Boston, Lamont said Sunday he is concerned.

Little is yet known about omicron, which was discovered less than a month ago in South Africa, aside from it having a menacing number of mutations — 34 on the spike gene. Researchers globally are working quickly to determine what characteristics this strain possesses. The obvious concern among health officials at the local, state and federal levels is whether this variant can spread more rapidly or evade immunity, for many conferred through vaccine.

The 60-year-old man identified as Connecticut’s first omicron case appears to have not developed serious symptoms, state officials said. He first discovered he was ill through an at-home test — a follow-up molecular test confirmed he was positive for COVID-19, officials said.

The number of booster shots administered in Connecticut has since increased to around 15,000 daily doses, according to CDC data, roughly on par with the first weeks of booster administration. The percentage of fully vaccinated individuals who received a booster increased about 5 percent in that time.

The latest figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that 26 percent of Connecticut’s fully vaccinated residents received a booster shot as of Thursday.

Check back for updates.