State police warrant reveals more information about statewide theft spree
Adam Hushin
Dec. 4, 2021
Updated: Dec. 4, 2021 9:03 p.m.
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Comments
Brandy Quadrato, 36
1
of
5
Brandy Quadrato, 36

Contributed / Connecticut State Police


The two New Haven men arrested in connection with a statewide shoplifting “ring,” have a combined 27 open cases in various courts across the state, according to State Police arrest warrants.

The two men were part of a group of four individuals that are believed to have committed about a dozen thefts across the state, including Wallingford, Clinton, Old Lyme, Ansonia, Southington, Danbury and Oxford.

The group was caught on video multiple times, including a viral video that caught the group loading shopping carts with more than $1,600 worth of merchandise, mostly bottles of laundry detergent, into two vehicles parked outside the Market 32 grocery store in Oxford.

Police said it was viral videos like that one and cooperation from the public that helped lead to the apprehension of three of the four individuals involved in the theft spree.

On Thursday, State Police announced they had arrested James Hill, 44, Nasif Muhammad, 51, and Brandy Quadrato, 36, in connection with the Oxford incident. They were each charged with fourth-degree larceny and conspiracy to commit fourth-degree larceny, state police said. Bond for each was set at $50,000.

Shortly after that announcement, State Police released the arrest warrants for the three individuals, revealing further information about how the suspects were identified.

On Nov. 11, two days after the Oxford theft, a caller said they recognized one of the women in the viral video as a resident in his New Haven housing complex. One of the cars involved in the incident, a tan Honda Odyssey mini-van, was at the Springside Avenue apartment complex when police arrived. They seized the vehicle and towed it back to State Police Troop A headquarters in Southbury.

They then discovered it was the same vehicle involved in other incidents around the state. In the warrant, police said it “appears that the involved suspects and vehicles are persistent offenders on a larceny spree that has yet to cease.”

More News
Mystery ‘holiday hunt’ in Stamford urges shopping locally

Does Stamford’s population growth mean more power in Hartford?

On Nov. 14, a resident of that apartment complex identified on of the female suspects as Quadrato. This was then confirmed by two more callers, police said.

The following day, a different caller identified Hill and Muhammad.

Warrants were drafted for all of their arrests, and were approved on Nov. 18.

Police said in the warrant that Hill had 22 open cases in various courts across the state, including other larceny and robbery cases. Muhammad had five open cases in various courts, all a different degree of larceny.

Sgt. John Acampora, of the Oxford Resident Trooper’s Office, said Thursday that all three were arrested by other police departments following their arrests for the Oxford incident.

Hill is due to appear in Derby Superior Court on Monday, Muhammad is due to appear on Wednesday, and Quadrato on Thursday.