Stamford’s population has increased and so has its state legislators. Does this mean more power in Hartford?
Photo of Brianna Gurciullo
Brianna Gurciullo
Dec. 6, 2021
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Comments
Stamford, Connecticut on March 20, 2021.
1
of
5
Stamford, Connecticut on March 20, 2021.

Patrick Sikes / For Hearst Connecticut Media


STAMFORD — With the city’s population boom has come a boost to its political clout.

A bipartisan group of state lawmakers recently redrew the lines of Connecticut’s House and Senate districts to take into account the 2020 census. Stamford, which emerged from the census as the fastest-growing city in the state, will get an additional House member and another senator, bringing the size of its delegation to 11. Elections in the new districts will take place next year.

A larger delegation gives the city “a stronger voice,” said state Sen. Patricia Billie Miller, D-Stamford. “We just picked up two more votes,” she noted.

Gary Rose, a professor at Sacred Heart University and political commentator, agreed.

“It's not enormous what we're talking about, but nevertheless when you do add some representation to a certain area, it only elevates their importance,” Rose said. “There's no question at all: It makes the voice even louder and more important.”

""

Working with Stamford’s delegation to capture more state funding for the city was one of the goals that Mayor Caroline Simmons set out during her campaign. Simmons was a member of the delegation for seven years as the representative of the 144th state House District.

“I think it only helps to have a strong delegation and additional members and additional voices at the table up in Hartford,” Simmons said.

Stamford’s population increased about 10 percent from 2010 to 2020, according to census data. With more than 135,000 residents, it became the second-largest city in the state.

Under the new state Senate map, Stamford’s Springdale neighborhood will be part of the 26th District, currently represented by Democrat Will Haskell, instead of the 27th District, which had about 11,000 people more than the maximum allowed. The target population for Senate districts is between 95,000 and 105,000.

Miller became the senator for the 27th District earlier this year after winning a special election. Her district includes the South End and downtown, where much of Stamford’s population growth has been concentrated.

""

As it loses Springdale, Miller’s district will gain the Hubbard Heights neighborhood from the 36th state Senate District — a change Miller said she wanted so the entirety of the 145th House District would fall within her Senate district.

The 36th state Senate District, represented by Republican Ryan Fazio, will continue to include northern and western portions of Stamford.

More News
Mystery ‘holiday hunt’ in Stamford urges shopping locally

Drone photos: Yankees GM makes annual rappel before tree lighting

Haskell’s district, the 26th, will lose Bethel and roughly half of Ridgefield. The district will extend south and also have a narrow arm reaching through New Canaan, Darien and into Stamford.

The changes mean the 26th District is “taking on a little bit more of an East-West feel as opposed to a North-South feel,” Haskell said, which he thinks is “valuable.”

“A big focus of my time in the legislature has been on transportation, especially modernizing and speeding up our Metro-North trains, and the way that most people in Fairfield County commute is generally along the East-West corridor, not North-South,” he said. “So in many ways, I think that the work I've already been doing representing (towns) like Westport on the main line of the Metro-North New Haven branch is actually going to pair really well with (the) new constituencies and communities that I represent, like Darien and Stamford.”

He said he plans to speak with the current members of Stamford’s delegation to try to “get a sense of what the top issues are” for residents and also hear from residents themselves at virtual or in-person town halls.

“I know that train noise on the New Canaan branch line is especially troublesome in that neighborhood,” Haskell said. “As the senate chair of the Transportation Committee, I'd love to continue working on that issue with some of these new constituents.”

Haskell said his door is open to both his current constituents, including those who will have a different state senator in 2023, as well as the people he doesn’t represent yet.

“If I get a call from somebody in Bethel tomorrow about a question they have for the DMV, I'm going to help them even though (Bethel will) not be part of my district in the future,” he said. “And if I get a call from somebody in Springdale tomorrow seeking help on a transportation-related issue, I'm going to help them even though they're not technically a part of my district yet.”

Of Stamford’s state House districts, the 147th will change the most, becoming significantly more compact. The district, represented by Democrat Matt Blumenthal, currently includes part of Westover as well as about half of North Stamford and also extends southeast into Darien. It will lose its section of Westover, some of North Stamford and its piece of Darien, while at the same time absorbing a part of the 144th House District.

With the redrawn lines, Blumenthal said he will be knocking on a lot of new doors ahead of the next election.

“In some ways, it'll be a little easier in the sense that I won't have to drive up to the New York border and be hiking around up there where the houses are pretty far apart,” he said. “But I will have a lot of new faces to put myself in front of and to talk to ... about the issues that matter for our city and our state.”

Blumenthal added that while the redistricting process may not be perfect, he believes Connecticut has “a process that’s much better than a lot of states” because it’s bipartisan.

“Redistricting is never a perfect or happy experience for everyone, but it is necessary, and in this case, I think we have a process that works a lot better than many other systems elsewhere in the country,” Blumenthal said.

Right now, Stamford’s Westover neighborhood is broken up by three House districts. Under the new House map, the entire neighborhood will fall under the 149th District, whose current representative is Republican Kimberly Fiorello.

The part of North Stamford that Blumenthal now represents will become part of the 125th District. That district currently includes parts of Wilton and New Canaan and is represented by Republican Tom O’Dea.

O’Dea’s district will essentially shift west to still include some of New Canaan plus the eastern half of North Stamford.

The 144th District, which had been represented by Simmons, is being squeezed on its sides and extended slightly south, taking a bite out of the 146th District.

Last month, members of the Reapportionment Commission described having to reduce the size of the 146th District because about 10,000 people in excess of the 23,800 target population moved into the area over 10 years.

Democratic state Rep. David Michel, who represents the 146th District, said while he isn’t “necessarily happy” to lose some of his constituents, the changes to his district were minimal compared with others.

“I heard that I have colleagues who went from (districts) leaning Democrat to leaning Republican,” Michel said. “I have other colleagues who gained a lot more towns and lost some towns or lost a piece of their town right next to their house. So I can't complain, really.”

Includes prior reporting by staff writers Kendra Baker, Ken Dixon and Julia Bergman.