‘Love’ is the main ingredient at new family-run Epik Diner in New Haven
Pam McLoughlin
Dec. 5, 2021
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Comments
From left, Epik Diner & Bake Shop owners Daniela Kavourakis, Dano Weisse, George Kavourakis and Vicki Weisse are photographed in their diner on Whalley Avenue in New Haven Dec. 2, 2021.
1
of
11
From left, Epik Diner & Bake Shop owners Daniela Kavourakis, Dano Weisse, George Kavourakis and Vicki Weisse are photographed in their diner on Whalley Avenue in New Haven Dec. 2, 2021.

Arnold Gold / Hearst Connecticut Media






NEW HAVEN — Days after filming at George Kavourakis’ Maryland diner for his Food Network show “Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,” host Guy Fieri came back with his family — away from the cameras — so they, too, could taste Kavourakis’ creations, especially the potato crusted salmon.

Kavourakis said Fieri turned to his wife after she tasted his signature salmon creation and said, “I told you,” referring to the fabulous flavor.

Now the dish can be ordered right here in New Haven at the newly-opened Epik Diner & Bake Shop on Whalley Avenue, owned by Kavourakis and three other family members with deep restaurant roots.

More News
Police: Social media threat prompts lockdown at Eli Whitney

Officials consider school metal detectors, seek to ID of threat

The lineup of seasoned family staff include Kavourakis’ wife, Daniela, the “in-house executive pastry chef” who bakes a multitude of desserts including 25 kinds of cheesecake; his daughter, Vicki Weisse, who waited on her first table at 8-years-old and is working “front of house” greeting customers and managing staff; and Weisse’s husband, Dano, whose mission is to learn George Kavourakis’ unique recipes and carry on the legacy. Dano Weisse has 20 years of experience in his family’s Italian restaurant business.

“This is a family thing and we want to be a staple in the community,” Vicki Weisse said. “We want customers to be happy, make memories and enjoy the food. … We want you to feel like family.”

The 1426 Whalley Ave. eatery most recently was Amity Diner, which closed after a few years. For decades before that it was the popular Athenian Diner.

While Amity Diner’s modern purple decor remains, Epic has made changes - an 11-foot-long dessert case greets customers walking in the door and looks like something out of “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.” The guts of the kitchen are also new, including the grill, flattop, line and appliances.

Epik Diner opened Nov. 17 and already they know the names of regulars and customers are greeting Vicki Weisse as “Vik.”

Customers Donnie and Desiree Bouttry of Westville said the food is so good they plan on eating their way through the menu.

“The diner is great. The food is great, the people are great - very friendly,” Desiree Bouttry said. “We’re going to go through the whole menu step by step.”

Donnie Bouttry said he’s spreading the word about the new diner through their neighborhood.

“It doesn’t get any better,” he said. “The first day in they made us feel like family.”

Making customers feel like family is what they’re about - and love goes into every recipe, the Kavourakises and Weisses emphasized.

Vicki Weisse said they want it to be the type of place where they watch customers’ kids grow up - she reminds them, “We have a 25-year lease.” Weisse said she also wants parents to know their kids are safe at the diner because one of the owners will always be there. She hopes it becomes the kind of diner where parents hand their kids some money and say, “Go to Epik for a shake and a burger.”

The diner carries everything from the traditional pancakes, omelets and burgers to Kavourakis’ own creative concoctions such as a filet mignon BLT, a short rib grilled cheese, pulled pork and mac and cheese grilled cheese. Kavourakis makes all the soups and sauces from scratch and even makes his own spice blends. He shreds each potato for the popular crusted salmon dish that Fieri fell in love with.

“Our menu is huge because we have a Greek father who doesn’t believe in small menus,” Vicki Weisse said. She said her father is “not cheap” when it comes to food and will spend more money to get best ingredients.

George Kavourakis, 73, said, “I believe that you have to spend money to make money. You can’t fool people. When a salesman comes, if I don’t like the way something looks, I say, ‘show me another.’”

He came to this country from Greece in 1968 and took a job as a dishwasher in New York City. He made $50 per week and quickly realized line cooks made $85. He learned to be a line cook - after being fired twice for faking it — then realized the chefs made even more, so he became a chef, then a pastry chef, learning on the job.

It so happened he was bursting with recipe creativity and that’s how he made a name for himself in the business.

“It makes me happy when I make customers happy. It makes me feel good in my heart,” Kavourakis said, placing his right hand on his chest.

Eventually he owned coffee shops and diners and built such a reputation in the Greek restaurant community that he became a hands-on consultant hired to turn around ailing diners — and was met with huge success.

“They say, ‘George, the kitchen is yours, the bakery is yours.’ … They trust me,” he said.

Fieri visited Kavourakis’ Broadway Diner in Baltimore in 2009 and raved about the Hungarian goulash, Broadway festival seafood pasta dish, as well as the potato crusted salmon, calling the latter “one of the coolest things I’ve ever seen on ‘Triple D’” — the nickname for his show.

Fieri says at the end of the episode, “George will take you to Flavortown,” an endorsement referring to a mythical place Fieri created where fun and food live in harmony.

Now Kavourakis relishes the time teaching his son-in-law how to make his recipes. The plan, he said, is for Dano Weisse to learn the signature dishes so Kavourakis can take extended getaways to Greece, although he’s not planning to retire anytime soon.

“My son-in-law’s doing great,” Kavourakis said, noting that on a recent day Weisse had cooked the matzo balls to perfection by the time Kavourakis arrived.

Dano Weisse said working alongside his father-in-law in the kitchen is a “priceless” experience.”

“The knowledge he can give me is priceless,” Dano Weisse said. “Hopefully I can carry on his recipes, his legacy.”

George Kavourakis taught his wife how to bake a few years ago and “she took what my father taught her to a different level - she’s creative,” Vicki Weisse said. Daniela Kavourakis’ cheesecake flavors include salted caramel pretzel, and she’s proud of her Black Forest cake, lemon meringue and linzer tarts.

“I put a lot of love into my cakes,” she said. “I have had people tell me my cakes are heaven on a plate.”

Her shakes are elaborate — the strawberry cheesecake shake is topped with a slice of strawberry cheesecake, while an Oreo ice cream sandwich sits atop the Oreo shake. Another is heaped with colorful cotton candy.

The business entails long hours, hard work and patience, but she said when she sees a customer’s “face light up” as they take a bite or a sip, “it gives me extra power that I can keep going on. It’s extra fuel.”

“When you love something it doesn’t feel like work,” she said.

George Kavourakis came up with the name “Epik” — as in the food is “epic”’ — but they went with a “k” at the end rather than a “c” because it is unique and worked better with social media, Vicki Weisse said.

Vicki Weisse said despite all the “knowledge” her father has, he still says, “If you see something you like, tell me, maybe I can make it better.”