
'Stars align' for Ecusta Trail with state funding, more; construction to start 2022
Derek Lacey
Asheville Citizen Times








The Ecusta Trail, a planned 19-mile trail connecting Brevard and Hendersonville along an unused rail line, is getting a boost with a $600,000 allocation in the state budget.
The almost 20 miles of railroad through residential and pastoral land between Hendersonville and Brevard hasn't featured a train engine in almost 20 years, but after more than a decade of work from local activists and a jolt of funding from the state, it's closer to becoming a recreational and economic engine itself: the Ecusta Trail. 

Two allocations are made in the state budget, a $500,000 grant to Friends of the Ecusta trail for trail construction, and $100,000 for improvements to the Ecusta Trail Greenway.

It's the final chunk of funding needed to greenlight work on the first section of the trail after years of organizing to turn the 19-mile rail line into a multiuse pedestrian trail.

"We are thrilled to see funding support for construction of the Ecusta Trail," said Rebekah Robinson, assistant director for programs with Conserving Carolina. 

In August, a subsidiary of Conserving Carolina, Ecusta Rails to Trails LLC, finalized the purchase of the 19-mile corridor for the future path, she said, turning the focus to raising the remining funds needed for construction. 

The completed trail should cost around $31 million, according to Chris Burns, president of Summit Marketing Group in Hendersonville and board member of Friends of the Ecusta Trail. 

"I'm one of the founding board members of Friends of the Ecusta Trail," he said. "I've been at this now for 13 years, and it's almost surreal, to be honest. It's one of those things that you work on for so long, that you just don't know how you're going to feel with the day comes."

More:Ecusta Trail: Railroad files to abandon line; timeline set for corridor purchase

More:DuPont State Forest gets $750K in NC budget for planning, trails amid soaring visitation

With the funding from the state and action by the Henderson County Board of Commissioners to choose and hire an engineering and design firm for the first 6-mile stretch of the trail, Burns says the first construction is set to start in 2022, following final design of exactly what the path will look like. 

"It really has felt like one of those projects where the stars have just aligned in the last couple of years," Robinson said.

If the Henderson County Commissioners approve Dec. 6 the recently-created trail advisory committee's recommendation of Vaughn and Melton for engineering and design on that first section, Burns said that work could be completed in 2022, and construction could start in 2022, as well. 

"The excitement just keeps growing," he said. "We're way beyond where we expected to be at this point."

John Mitchell, Henderson County manager, said the first section of the trail could be open even before construction is completed, as soon as the county can make sure it's safe, and a volunteer cleanup day is in the works. 

Conserving Carolina leased the land back to the county on a long-term, 100-year lease, he said, and after Commissioners Bill Lapsley and Rebecca McCall helped get the NCDOT funding from the French Broad River Metropolitan Planning Organization, the county established the advisory committee to head the project. 

That's chaired by former State Rep. Chuck McGrady, who Mitchell called an indispensable asset to the effort, also citing partners like the Henderson County Tourism Development Authority, Laurel Park and Hendersonville. 

He said the county is moving as quickly as possible to get construction started. 

'Just a matter of time'
Construction of the first 6 miles, roughly one-third of the entire length of the trail from downtown Hendersonville to the industrial park near Brevard that's home to Oskar Blues Brewery, makes it easier to build the remaining two-thirds, Burns said. 

The first 6 miles of trail should cost around $6.5 million, and Henderson County has received grant funds from the state Department of Transportation to fund 80% of that cost, he said. He confirmed that Friends of the Ecusta Trail have raised the $1.2 million for that remaining 20% match.

Fundraisers are now in the midst of a $6.5 million capital campaign to raise the 20% matching funds for the entire cost of the project, Burns said.

Big funding pieces that remain include $10 million needed for the 80% piece for the portion of the trail in Transylvania County.

Robinson said the $600,000 from the state will go toward matching future federal grants for future phases of construction. 

More:Ecusta Trail greenway connecting Brevard and Hendersonville land under contract

More:Pisgah View: $12.2M in state budget blazes the trail for Buncombe's first state park

Both Burns and Robinson noted that the $31 million total is a conservative estimate, assuming that construction of the trail will include rebuilding all bridges and trestles, including over the French Broad River, which Burns said alone carries an estimated $6 million price tag. 

It also includes trailhead buildouts and some amenities, but once the first phase of design dictates what the trail will actually look like, including how wide it is and what its surface material will be, a clearer picture of the true cost will come into focus. 

Robinson noted that due to the use of federal funds, the trail will likely be required to be ADA-compliant, and therefore paved.

But with the first section locked in, Burns said it helps open the way for the remaining 13 or so miles, having spoken with two grant organizations in the past week with another meeting slated for next week. As with the project up to this point, long periods of work are punctuated by catalysts that open the floodgate. 

"It's just a matter of time," he said, of the remaining funding and work. "I'm extremely optimistic."

The rail line, which was set to be abandoned by Blue Ridge Southern Railroad in March, and which has already had the rails pulled up, will be federally railbanked, Robinson said, meaning that the rail bed will be preserved if a future railroad user wants to reestablish rail service. 

She said organizers don't feel that's likely, as "it would be an incredibly significant investment for a railroad to come back in and establish rail service," Robinson said. 

Henderson County Commissioners and Brevard City Council have stepped up to take leadership of the project, he said, both of which have had the vision to look forward and see what the trail is going to mean for the area. 

He also credited State Sen. Chuck Edwards, a chair of the Senate appropriations committee on agriculture, natural and economic resources, who he called a "huge supporter of the project," and someone who recognized the economic benefit for both counties while preserving the rail corridor. 

"I know that this is a project which is going to bring economic benefit to folks that live in the county, and it's going to accomplish that for generations," Mitchell said. 

Burns said he already knows of three "substantial business investments that have been made" that are getting prepared so they're ready when the trail opens. 

Mitchell said it took a lot of people working hard for a long time to get to this point, but there's still a lot more to do. 

"But to me, it feels like we've accomplished a really meaningful milestone," he said. 

'It runs the gamut'
The trail starts in downtown Hendersonville, continues through Laurel Park and into the more rural Etowah and Horse Shoe areas, Robinson said. 

"There's a long crossing over the French Broad River that's really beautiful," she said. 

Then, Robinson said it's into more agricultural lands as the trail moves into Transylvania County, then through Pisgah Forest, over the Davidson River and ending at the industrial park in Brevard that's home to Oskar Blues Brewery. 

As Burns noted, someone could grab lunch in downtown Hendersonville, hop on their bike and head to Oskar Blues for a beer. 

"It's really varied," he said of the landscape along the trail. "When you leave downtown Hendersonville, you're basically going through a very pretty, old residential neighborhood. There's a lot of nodding and waving at people in their backyards."

The first mile and a half has a slight uphill grade, Burns said, one only cyclists in the gravel are likely to notice, then once it gets to Laurel Park the grade levels out before coming to a more rural residential section. 

The more pastoral, open fields of the Etowah and Penrose Valleys allow for long-range views of the Pisgah Mountain range once the trail emerges from the woods, he said. 

That town-to-county sequence then reverses itself, with Pisgah Forest bringing the user back into some residential areas before coming out onto the Davidson River and into the industrial park near Brevard, Burns said, where the trail meets the Brevard Bike Path.

While it does go up and down across its length, it's only 13 feet of elevation difference between the start and end of the trail, he said. 

Something that's also come up as they've talked to various planners is the high number of access points the trail has, so Burns said, if users want to do just 1.3 miles, they can. If they'd like to do 3.8 or 16.3, they can. 

"When I look at it, I think about all the kids that are going to learn how to ride their bikes there," Mitchell said. "I think about all the mom and pop businesses that are going to support families for the next 100 years, and I think it's about connecting communities that have been disconnected."

Derek Lacey covers health care, growth and development for the Asheville Citizen Times. Reach him at DLacey@gannett.com or 828-417-4842 and find him on Twitter @DerekAVL.



We Noticed You're Blocking Ads
We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism.
Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing.
Unblock Ads
Go Ad Free
Already a subscriber? Please sign in.