
Former Camp Lejeune Marine leading newly launched, military-centric national nonprofit
Calvin Shomaker
The Daily News








U.S. Marine Corps veteran Tim Jensen speaks at the launch event for the Grunt Style Foundation in Jacksonville, Nov. 16.
A former Camp Lejeune Marine is leading one of the nation’s newest military and veteran focused nonprofits.

Tim Jensen, who served at Lejeune with the 2nd Assault Amphibian Battalion (AAB), heads up the Grunt Style Foundation, a national organization funded by veteran-operated apparel brand Grunt Style. 

Last month, the San Antonio, Texas based company officially launched the Grunt Style Foundation in Jacksonville while supporting Operation Homefront’s annual Holiday Meals for Military program, which provided 250 Camp Lejeune families gift cards for holiday meals. 

“I wanted it to be Jacksonville because that's the community in which I came from,” Jensen said of the launch. “Understanding that the Marine families there are struggling to make it work, to put food on the table for their families, I couldn't think of a better place to do it.” 

Jensen joined the Marine Corps in 1997 after high school and became an Assault Amphibious Vehicle Crewman with 2nd AAB until May of 2001. A self-described “horrible garrison Marine,” Jensen returned to the civilian world, then Sept. 11 happened and he got the urge to go back into the military, this time with 2nd Battalion, 24th Marines, a Marine Reserve battalion in his hometown of Chicago.

In 2004, Jensen deployed to Iraq’s ‘Triangle of Death’ southwest of Baghdad, an experience that changed him forever.  

“It wasn't anything that we expected,” Jensen said of the deployment. “We were walking into an environment where our mission was to allow for the Iraqi national election, but there were other things that needed to get done before that could even happen.” 

Jensen's unit saw significant fighting, which killed and wounded a number of his fellow Marines. In 2005, he got out of the Marine Corps for good, but was left with invisible wounds of war.

In 2013, after earning a college degree and desperate for employment, Jensen got a job with Grunt Style folding t-shirts. He eventually rose up through the company to now as the company’s chief strategy officer and president of the Grunt Style Foundation, which aims to make a difference in four sections of military and veteran life – mental health and wellness, food insecurity, veteran homelessness and veteran transition and sustainment.

More: Sneads Ferry business helps you clear your mind with float therapy

More: Marine Raider's nonprofit aims to heal special ops vets holistically

The foundation works with veteran service organizations like Burns Pits 360, which advocates for veterans impacted by toxic exposure. Jensen said he supports the Honoring Our Promise to Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act, a bill sponsored by House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Mark Takano (D-CA) that would establish service connected presumption for over 20 respiratory illnesses and cancers related to burn pits and airborne hazards. 

Jensen also said he wants to be on the frontlines of the push to offer veterans alternative forms of therapy and treatment, such as hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat traumatic brain injury and plant-based therapies to deal with mental hurdles.

Speaking from personal experience, Jensen said plant-based therapy recently enabled him to cope with the fall of Afghanistan and helped him put to rest longtime issues.

“I put 17 years of garbage and destructive behaviors and just survivor's guilt behind me,” Jensen said of his experience with plant therapy. “I believe that this is a conversation that needs to be had in our community.” 

In the dark time of his life, Jensen turned to drugs and alcohol, but now says he is a better person because he learned to let go of the past and be happy with who he has become. 

“A lot of it had to do with not coming to terms with this significant loss and some of the things that I saw,” Jensen said, who feels his journey of going from combat veteran to business executive is not all that unique. 

“This is the story of every veteran that has walked into a battlefield,” Jensen said. “I think what is different in this story is that moment where I said you know what, I am not going to take my life. I am going to put my best foot forward and I am going to make a difference.” 

More: N.C. Marines involved in litigation over COVID-19 vaccine mandate

Reporter Calvin Shomaker can be reached at cshomaker@gannett.com.


