
Two rotting shrimp boats disappear from Holden Beach
-AA+A
Bookmark and Share
By Staff Report
Tuesday, November 30, 2021 at 4:38 pm
PopularRelated
Market donates bench to honor former pier operators
Centenarian's secret to a long life: wine and martinis
Two rotting shrimp boats disappear from Holden Beach
Brunswick County Homeless Coalition hands out soup to aid homeless
Shallotte artist unveils Riverwalk art
Flotilla sails into OIB Nov. 27
Schools clear up quarantining confusion
Brunswick County passes election audit
more
 Onlookers watched the week of Nov. 15 as rotting shrimp boats were pulled out of the Intracoastal Waterway near the Holden Beach bridge.

The two 65-foot-long boats were Miss Evans and Capt. Jeff. The boats hadn’t been in service for some time and were beyond repair or salvage according to a press release from the North Carolina Coastal Federation.

It adds the boats’ owners and families gave Brunswick County and federation permission to remove the vessels and dispose of them correctly.

During that time, the land and water area was closed to the public. The Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office had a boat floating nearby to help slow boaters down as they passed by or warn the boat drivers of what was going on.

Mainstream Commercial Divers were hired to clear out the trawlers and any hazardous materials. Workers used a land-based crane to help remove the boats.

Any debris was placed into dumpsters and disposed of in the county’s landfill. On Nov. 15, Brunswick County Board of Commissioners approved a waiver for disposing of the boats in the county landfill. The disposal fees are estimated to be between $8,000 and $10,000.

The removal was funded through a grant from the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Debris Program Emergency Hurricane Funding.

“The two trawlers and their symbolism of coastal history and culture will be missed, and the generations of men and women who worked on them are saddened at the loss,” the release said. “However, the removal will reduce and clean up harmful debris in the surrounding waters and habitats, and it will aid the owners and their families.”

Tootie Gregson watched the ships being pulled out Nov. 16 and 17. She and her son saw something was going on early in the week and decided to check it out. Her son wasn’t there to watch it with her later in the week because he had to return home.

She said she went down Nov. 16, but nothing was happening. She and Johnny Ludlum discussed the history of the boats.

Gregson recalled Ludlum saying “they were watching history in the making.”

“These boats have been here for years and years and years,” she said the next day in an interview with the Beacon.

She said she purchased her first home there in 1984 and both of her children have grown up on there during the summers.

She couldn’t remember when the boats were parked there, but she knows it happened at some point during her time on the island.

“It’s going to look so different,” she said. “It’s going to look clean over there.”

Gregson added she is glad the boats were being removed. She said there’s nothing nice about seeing a rotting boat there. Gregson can remember years ago there were many more rotting boats along the waterway.

She was amused watching boaters pass by while looking but forgetting to slow down.

On Nov. 17, she found out she had good timing as she watched the action from the island’s coast. She wasn’t completely alone. While she stood there, a few cars, pickup trucks and a motorcyclist pulled up to take in the sight. A few yards away, people settled into lawn chairs to watch.

A small boat nearby and the rigging on Capt. Jeff was lifted out of the area by the crane and pulled elsewhere.

“All they’ve got up in the air – that’s so interesting,” Gregson said. “They know exactly what they were going to get the next time (the crane picked something up).”

Across the water near the work site, Ludlum was watching the crew work. He came out to watch it because he had two stepsons who worked on the Capt. Jeff at one point. Both of the stepsons were shrimpers. One worked on the old boat for years until he couldn’t work anymore, while the other worked on it briefly before moving on to another boat.

Ludlum was down there taking photos of the boat for his stepsons. While he was doing that, a worker heard about Ludlum’s connection to the boat. Ludlum asked for a souvenir if it “happens to fall off.”

The worker went in and grabbed a bell for him, pulling it right off the boat, which Ludlum is going to give to the stepson who worked on the boat for a long time.

He thinks the Capt. Jeff hadn’t been out of commission for more than 10 years or so. The other one, he believes, had been there for about 16 years.

Ludlum said this was history in the making because the shrimping industry is disappearing.

“It’s a shame that it comes to the point the owners of the boats can’t take the boats out,” he said, explaining they couldn’t afford to recover the boats.

Ludlum said he bets these aren’t the only boats that need to be removed.

“It just goes to show you the history of the shrimp boats slowly disappearing,” he said.

He said it’s interesting to watch it get pulled out piece by piece while knowing the history of it.

 

 Meredith Willse is a staff writer for the Beacon. Reach her at 910-239-7452 or mwillse@brunswickbeacon.com.
