Skip to main content
December 6, 2021

Extended Search

The Mitchell News, Spruce Pine, North Carolina Home
facebook
twitter
instagram
A JOYFUL NOISE: Central Community Choir brings kids together
By Cory Spiers on Wednesday, December 1, 2021
Image
ChoirChoir
Previous
Next
Long Caption
Zoe McLott carefully reads her sheet music as she sings during a recent Central Community Children’s Choir rehearsal. (MNJ photo/Cory Spiers)

Body
Rehearsal always begins the same way, just after 6 p.m. on Thursdays for the Central Community Children’s Choir.

“Let’s all warm-up,” calls out director Rachel O’Reilly.

More than a dozen eager children rise immediately, stretching their hands to the sky and doing vocal warmups that sound like fans and car alarms.

Now, they’re ready.

O’Reilly and Jess Lanning, the other director, ask the kids which song they want to start with. “Go Tell It on the Mountain” is a popular choice.

These rehearsals are key for the Central Community Children’s Choir, which is preparing for its first concert on Saturday, Dec. 11 at 6 p.m. in the Central Baptist Church Sanctuary— the same place they rehearse.

The choir was formed this past September in an effort to bring area children together to make a joyful noise as a collective unit.

For 8-year-old Ezra McLott, coming together is the best part. “I like to be with my friends here,” McLott said.

The choir provides a place to sing for children from smaller church congregations that don’t have the resources to organize a full kids’ choir.

Some participants can’t even select one best part.

“Everything about kids’ choir is the best,” said 8-year-old Kieran O’Reilly.

Any local children in kindergarten through eighth grade is invited to participate in the safe, welcoming and educational environment. While the first concert is quickly approaching, Lanning said there could potentially be additional holiday performances added in the future, as some parents have already shown interest.

All are welcome to the choir’s first concert on Dec. 11. The kids are eager to show the fruits of many Thursday evening rehearsals alongside their friends.

“I love choir,” Macci English, 10, said. “We get to just feel free and sing together.”

FacebookTwitter
The Mitchell News, Spruce Pine, North Carolina e-Edition
Read The Mitchell News, Spruce Pine, North Carolina


POPULAR CONTENT
Today's:
John Johnson
ASK DENISE: Sister-in-law seems ungrateful for gifts
Kameron Wilson
All time:
Couple arrested after drugs, $14K found during traffic stop
Mitchell County Arrest Report
UPDATE: Commissioners discuss possible shelter-in-place order at special meeting
Last viewed:
FOOTBALL: Mitchell holds off Mt. Airy
John Johnson
Trail of Lights will brighten up county for third year
THE MITCHELL NEWS
Mailing Address: PO Box 339 
Spruce Pine, NC 28777 
Phone: 828-765-7169
Fax: 828-765-1616

© 2021 The Mitchell News, Spruce Pine, North Carolina