.....Advertisement.....
.....Advertisement.....
Subscribe to the paper NIE Contact us Submit news Place an AdMonday, December 6, 2021LOGIN TO YOUR ACCOUNT:

Not registered? Sign up
View Forecast
84°F
Humidity: 26%

Search BrunswickBeacon.com
 Search
EVENTS CALENDAR
«  
December
  »
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Events
HOMENEWSSPORTSOPINIONOBITUARIESFEATURESSPECIAL SECTIONSCLASSIFIEDSPUBLIC NOTICES



Read a digital copy of the latest Brunswick Beacon online.

Brunswick County passes election audit
-AA+A
Bookmark and Share
By Staff Report
Tuesday, November 30, 2021 at 4:32 pm
PopularRelated
Market donates bench to honor former pier operators
Centenarian's secret to a long life: wine and martinis
Two rotting shrimp boats disappear from Holden Beach
Brunswick County Homeless Coalition hands out soup to aid homeless
Shallotte artist unveils Riverwalk art
Flotilla sails into OIB Nov. 27
Schools clear up quarantining confusion
Brunswick County passes election audit
more
 The Brunswick County Board of Elections ran a state-required pilot risk-limiting audit Nov. 18 and passed after the first count.

According to a press release from the North Carolina Election Boards, a risk-limiting audit is a “hand-to-eye recount of randomly selected sample ballots.” It is to provide evidence the machine counts are correct.

The audit was done so state and county election officials can learn how about the process. It is intended to be used for future elections.

Brunswick County Board of Elections Director Sara LaVere said the state decided they should pull ballots for Brunswick Regional Water and Sewer H2Go Commissioner to test.

The staff pulled all of the ballots from that election from 38 predetermined batches staff already made. The batches from each bin were about 50 ballots each.

“The thinking was the more ballots in a batch you could have to count, I feel like the more you are counting, the more likely you are maybe to miss one,” LaVere said.

Then they hand-tallied the ballots. It took about 30 minutes to count it up.

She said the state decides on how many ballots to pull and which election to pull from. LaVere said the number is based on how many ballots were casted and how close the contest was.

This particular one wasn’t close, but if it had been, there is a chance the staff would have been counting more ballots.

She said as the staff pulled the ballots, the staff also put placeholders so they can put the ballots back in the correct spot.

If the staff had to count a second list, LaVere said the hand tally would have not provided the “confidence” to show the results were correct.

The confidence level is 85%.

The staff would then be given a second list of ballots to pull.

Brunswick County was participating along with 16 other counties. Buncombe, Scotland, Watauga and Brunswick were scheduled to submit results that morning. The state dealt with one county at a time, which made two county staff members who did the count and the witnesses who were two board members and a state employee to wait over 30 minutes.

When they passed, the staff began to put the ballots back. They sealed the bins and pushed them out to the warehouse. The ballots have to be stored for at least 22 months before they can be destroyed.

The whole process was livestreamed by the county.

 

 Meredith Willse is a staff writer for the Beacon. Reach her at 910-239-7452 or mwillse@brunswickbeacon.com.

CommentAdd new comment
Read and share your thoughts on this story

News
Business
Courts
Education
Political
Public Safety
Sheriff Reports
Sports
BCC
Community Sports
Fishing
Golf
Opinion
Columns
Letters
Features
Club News
Community News
Cooking
County Extension
Milestones
Religion
TV Listings
More Content
Blogs
Obituaries
Calendar
Classified
Employment
Farm & Garden
Legals
Merchandise
Pets
Real Estate
Services
Vehicles
About Us
Subscribe
Newspaper In Education
Home
Get the paper
Create/manage your profile
Refund Policy
Privacy policy, terms and conditions
About Us
NIE
Copyright © 2021
The Brunswick Beacon is your source for local news, sports, events and information in Brunswick County, North Carolina and surrounding areas.