Home
News-Times e-Edition
News-Times
Tideland News
Beaches
The Talk Station
Arts Alive
Calendar
Multimedia
Search...
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Emerald Isle Mayor Eddie Barber looks back on 8 years in office with pride	
Emerald Isle Mayor Eddie Barber looks back on 8 years in off…
EMERALD ISLE — When Eddie Barber steps down as mayor of Emer…

Christmas in the Cape attracts hundreds for ‘sleigh’ rides, holiday gift vendors
BRAD RICH 4 hrs ago  0
Christmas in the Cape attracts hundreds for ‘sleigh’ rides, holiday gift vendors
Children and parents prepare to take off on the first “sleigh” ride of the day Sunday at Cape Carteret’s Christmas in the Cape event. (Brad Rich photo)

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
CAPE CARTERET — The weather cooperated Sunday – Cape Carteret town manager Zach Steffey called it “tropical” – and hundreds of people turned out for holiday and family fun at Christmas in the Cape.

Filtered sunshine and temperatures in the mid-60s greeted residents and visitors as the festival got underway at about 3 p.m. in Cape Carteret Community Park, behind the town hall off Dolphin Street. Adults bought Christmas gifts and decorations from vendors, children rode a “sleigh” through the neighborhoods and a wide variety of holiday tunes blared.

Given the history of rain and bad weather hampering the town’s festivals in the past, and a small chance of showers, Mr. Steffey joked Sunday that “I thought we’d probably break the drought.” But by the time officials lit the town Christmas tree in the park and the last tractor- pulled, brightly-lit “sleigh” pulled into the station after dark in a machine-created “snowstorm,” the weather had held and all had enjoyed the festival.

Earlier, Frank Johnson said he and his family, from Jones County, planned to “find some last minute stocking-stuffers for the children and a few gifts for family members.

Christmas in the Cape attracts hundreds for ‘sleigh’ rides, holiday gift vendors
Tom Ryerson of Ryerson Unlimited in Bogue makes and sells Christmas decorations Sunday at Cape Carteret’s Christmas in the Cape. (Brad Rich photo)

“There’s a lot here,” he said while looking at one vendor’s good selection of children’s books. “It’s going to be fun.”

Mr. Steffey said he was pleased by the large crowd, seemingly comprised of visitors to town.

“That’s a good thing,” he said. “It brings business to our businesses and hopefully shows people what a great place Cape Carteret would be to live in and open more businesses.”

One vendor, Ryerson Unlimited of Bogue, offered wooden outdoor Christmas decorations, mostly based on the classic children’s character The Grinch and other denizens of Dr. Seuss’s Whoville. Tom Ryerson had plenty on sale and was hard at work crafting more of them.

Most of the decorations, he said, could be made, painted and ready for sale in less than a day, and he noted business was good at the festival for his woodworking shop.

As always, Mr. Steffey thanked town staff for organizing the event.

“They enjoy it and so do I; I love it,” he said.

Christmas in the Cape attracts hundreds for ‘sleigh’ rides, holiday gift vendors
Some of the folks at Christmas in the Cape posed on stage after officials lit the Cape Carteret town Christmas tree Sunday. (Town of Cape Carteret photo)

He also thanked the many sponsors including Lowe’s Home Improvement, which provided numerous poinsettias and other plants that fronted the stage in a riot of red and green.

“We couldn’t do these things without our sponsors,” Mr. Steffey said.

He reminded residents those who want to participate in the town’s Christmas home-decorating contest should sign up on the town website, townofcapecarteret.org/, or call 252-393-8483 as soon as possible.

Decorations will be judged beginning at 6 p.m. Friday. If there’s inclement weather the judging will begin at the same time Saturday.

“We have a lot of interest and a lot of great prizes from our merchants,” Mr. Steffey said.

 

Contact Brad Rich at 252-864-1532; email brad@thenewstimes.com; or follow on Twitter @brichccnt.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Tags
Cape Carteret Holiday Events Christmas In The Cape Christmas 2021
 (0) comments
Welcome to the discussion.
Most Popular
 Articles
Pair of adopted Shackleford horses prove they have the hearts of champions
Newport man fills home, life with love of all things antique
Commissioners rezone Highway 24, Broad Creek Loop Road property in support of planned boat storage facility
Sheriff’s office files charges against juvenile involved in Down East stabbing; victim released from hospital
Longtime Atlantic Beach Councilman Harry Archer dies Thursday at 86
Carteret commissioners approve 12.5% raise for 911 communications center staff in effort to recruit, retain workers
Cedar Point booms: Latest residential development gets underway along Highway 24
GALLERY: 2021 Crystal Coast Flotilla delights holiday crowds
NCDOT completes travel demand model for Carteret County ahead of comprehensive transportation plan update
McCann powers to second in Extreme Division at world championships in Key West
Latest e-Edition
News Times
News Times
To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left.
Video
Most Popular
 Articles
Pair of adopted Shackleford horses prove they have the hearts of champions
Newport man fills home, life with love of all things antique
Commissioners rezone Highway 24, Broad Creek Loop Road property in support of planned boat storage facility
15-year-old says deputy used chokehold on her at Swansboro HS
Sheriff’s office files charges against juvenile involved in Down East stabbing; victim released from hospital
600-pound great white shark pings off Morehead City
Longtime Atlantic Beach Councilman Harry Archer dies Thursday at 86
Parents captured after son charged in Oxford school shooting
Carteret commissioners approve 12.5% raise for 911 communications center staff in effort to recruit, retain workers
Cedar Point booms: Latest residential development gets underway along Highway 24
Sections
e-Edition
News
TWM
Multimedia
Opinions
Obituaries
Marketplace
Swap Shop
Weather
Services
Contact Us
Advertise
Place an Ad
Obituary Form
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Places to Give
Community Resources
Contact Information
carolinacoastonline.com
5039 Executive DriveSuite 300
Morehead City, NC 28557
Phone: 252-726-7081
Email: nikki@thenewstimes.com
© Copyright 2021 Carolina Coast Online, 5039 Executive DriveSuite 300 Morehead City, NC | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.