
Vandals Caught on Security Cameras
By Newport This Week Staff | on December 02, 2021

By Christopher Allen
FacebookTwitterEmailMessengerCopy LinkSMSShare
If anyone recognizes these suspects or has information about the Nov. 28 vandalism, contact the Newport Police Department.
If anyone recognizes these suspects or has information about the Nov. 28 vandalism, contact the Newport Police Department.

Six Newport businesses were vandalized on Nov. 28, with perpe­trators caught on security cameras smashing windows. Businesses suffering damage were Malt, Rex Liquors, the Corner Cafe, Bike New­port and Newport Skin Therapy on Broadway, and Groovy Gator on Thames Street.

The incidents come in the wake of an initiative launched by the city in November aimed at combating the theft of mail-order packages, an occurrence that traditionally spikes during the holiday season. Called the “Community Security Camera Program,” private citizens and business owners are being asked to register their video sur­veillance systems with police.

“Footage from video surveil­lance cameras is one of the best methods for identifying and ap­prehending criminals and is an im­portant tool in keeping neighbor­hoods safe,” read a release from Newport police.

Registration for the program is voluntary and may be cancelled at any time. The program is free of charge and information submitted to police will be kept confidential. The primary catalyst for the pro­gram is the battle against package theft, police said, but the initiative will also “help police investigate … other neighborhood crimes.”

Lt. April Amaral, a spokes­person for Newport police, said the department will not have unfettered access to registrants’ camera systems, nor is there any plan to expand the program to in- clude live feeds to the department from private security cameras, as has been done in other cities.

“That’s not the point of the program,” she said. “The point is to save time. And we will only be looking for a specific time frame. It is not going to be a review of the camera footage for the past weeks to see who is going in and out of your house. The residents will dic­tate what we will receive. They still have the [privacy] control.”

Thus far, 10 residents had signed on to the registry in the first week, said Tom Shevlin, communications officer for the city.

Early feedback from residents and business owners has been positive, Amaral said.

The department has been working to get the word out through press releases and social media channels. “A lot of people still don’t know about it,” Amaral said. “Based on what we’ve heard, many agree that it would save a lot of legwork for a lot of people if the program got up and running. Having … 10 people isn’t much, but it’s a good start.”

Amaral anticipates more regis­trants as the holiday season picks up.

Traditionally, when a report of a crime comes in, responding of­ficers attempt to locate security cameras as part of the initial inves­tigation. This is followed by a visit from detectives assigned to the case.

“We only have so many officers working per shift. So, the more people who sign up, the more work is saved,” Amaral said. “This is just cutting the chase by reducing the need to go and knock on peo­ple’s doors.”

Though estimates vary, most available data show that the number of people reporting package theft is on the rise. A 2020 survey by the market research firm C+R Research had 43 percent of respondents say they had been victimized in the preceding 12 months, while 63 percent said they knew someone who had a parcel taken.

Amaral said data specific to Newport is difficult to pinpoint be­cause the thefts all fall under the category of larceny. But, she said, “We definitely have more parcels stolen during the holidays. That is always the case.”

Similar programs are already in place in other Rhode Island muni- cipalities.

Amaral acknowledged there are times when security camera owners refuse to hand over record­ings to police. Without the owners’ consent, the gathering of video evidence from private citizens or business owners requires a court order.

If nothing else, the program could create a deterrent for crim­inals through its mere existence, she said.

“It’s just a matter of keeping the residents safe,” said Amaral. “It’s a way that residents can help combat [these crimes].”

