
Champlin Foundation awards $13.2M in grants to 126 nonprofits
By James Bessette -December 6, 2021 12:37 pm
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF GENERAL MEDICAL SCIENCE granted The Miriam Hospital $11.1 million to establish a center to research the impact of stress and trauma on long-term health and wellness. / COURTESY THE MIRIAM HOSPITAL
THE MIRIAM HOSPITAL has received a $941,638 grant from The Champlin Foundation to purchase fluoroscopy equipment. / COURTESY THE MIRIAM HOSPITAL
CRANSTON – The Champlin Foundation on Monday announced $13.2 million in grants for 126 local nonprofits for varied needs, including building renovations, facility expansions, vehicle purchases and equipment upgrades.

The foundation in June also awarded $5.8 million to 77 local nonprofits.

Champlin Executive Director Nina Stack said in a statement that organizations had to again navigate complexities due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic this year. However, Stack said she’s heartened by the efforts of state’s nonprofit community.

“It is encouraging to see many returning to their important pre-pandemic capital priorities,” Stack said. “This past year has been one of innovation for so many organizations.”

Out of the 126 organizations, 37 received grants of at least $100,000 and 17 were first-time grant recipients. The grants ranged from $2,071 to $1 million.

The full list of grant recipients, and the amounts they received, can be found here.

The Boys & Girls Clubs of Newport County in Newport received the largest grant at $1 million. The youth services organization is planning to use that money to expand, renovate and restore its central clubhouse. The Miriam Hospital in Providence received $941,638 to purchase fluoroscopy equipment. The University of Rhode Island Foundation & Alumni Engagement received $563,706 for laser capture microdissection, laser doppler velocimetry and LED ellipsoidals and moving lights.

The foundation will open up the application period for the 2022 first-round grants on Dec. 15 through Jan. 15. Applications for the second cycle will be accepted between June 1 through July 1, the foundation said. Applications can be completed via the foundation’s website.

James Bessette is the PBN special projects editor, and also covers the nonprofit and education sectors. You may reach him at Bessette@PBN.com. You may also follow him on Twitter at @James_Bessette.

Purchase NowWant to share this story? Click Here to purchase a link that allows anyone to read it on any device whether or not they are a subscriber.

TAGSBoys and Girls Clubs of Newport CountyChamplin FoundationNina StackNonprofitThe Miriam HospitalUniversity of Rhode Island Foundation and Alumni Engagement
