Skip to main content
Enable accessibility for
visually impaired
Open the accessibility
menu
Accessibility Widget
___
Sign In	Subscribe

42°F
 
Susana Lopez, housing and community program manager at Coastal Community Action Program, is helping CCAP CEO Craig Dublanko in his efforts to get the word out to Grays Harbor County residents to call for an appointment if they are in need of rental and-or utility assistance.
Rent, utility help available for Grays Harbor families
Sun Dec 5th, 2021 10:12amNEWS
 
 
 
 
Anyone in need of financial breathing room ought to give a call to the people at Coastal Community Action Program, because there is help available.

All they need to do is call, said Craig Dublanko, CEO of CCAP.

The news at your fingertips.
Download our new app today.
    

“Don’t wait,” Dublanko said. “People wait, or they think they won’t qualify, so they don’t call.”

The Treasury Rental Assistance Program aims to prevent evictions during the economic crisis that has resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Grays Harbor County Public Health & Social Services website.

Grays Harbor County received $4.8 million from the federal government via the CARES Act, and then subcontracted with CCAP, Dublanko said. And then CCAP is administering the money. The CARES Act money came through the Washington State Department of Commerce.

“Lots has been spent, but we want the community to know there’s still lots more to be spent,” he said.

CCAP still has about 40 percent of those funds left, according to Susana Lopez, Housing and Community Services Program Manager.

“We have about $2 million left in the month of December,” Lopez said.

In order to qualify for this assistance — which can pay up to 15 months rent arrears and past-due utilities, as well as three months ahead — applicants have to meet the following qualifications:

■ Grays Harbor resident

■ Household income must be at or below 80% of the Area Median Income (before tax)

Below are the following household family income limits

■ 1 — $39,550

■ 2 — $45,200

■ 3 — $50,850

■ 4 — $56,500

■ 5 — $61,050

■ 6 — $65,550

■ 7 — $70,100

■ 8 — $74,600

In addition to those requirements, they also have had to be directly or indirectly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in one way or another, Lopez said.

“We all know that everyone has been affected, whether it’s having to buy cleaning supplies, masks (and) gloves,” Lopez said. “Everyone’s been affected one way or another.”

Dublanko said it’s a very low threshold to qualify from a COVID-19 standpoint.

“Any level of impact from COVID on the household and you qualify.”

Dublanko said the second factor is a person’s income level.

Lopez made sure to emphasize a point that neither she nor Dublanko wanted to be misunderstood. Those unsure if they should apply should take heed.

“One of the biggest points in there is they don’t have to be behind (on rent,) we can do three months ahead for them,” Lopez said. “We could (also) do up to 15 months of past-due utilities.”

Dublanko emphasized what exactly can be covered.

“Your heat, your water (and) sewer, and your garbage, we can do up to 15 months past-due,” Dublanko said. The cost of natural gas-fueled heat is covered, too.

Those who are fluent in Spanish and not English need not worry.

“We do have individual staff (members) here that speak Spanish,” Lopez said.

United States citizenship is not a requirement for assistance.

As of Wednesday, Dec. 1, Dublanko and Lopez were confident they could still help hundreds of families.

“There are slots for about 300 (families) right now. This is a great opportunity for any families that qualify in Grays Harbor County to get some assistance and help with their rent and utilities,” Dublanko said.

“We don’t want anybody (who is) in need (to) miss out. We are excited to be able to offer this in partnership with Grays Harbor County to the community and hope that people take advantage of it very soon, before the money’s gone.”

The deadline to spend the money is Dec. 31, Dublanko said. But the appointments are open.

“People need to sign up for an appointment before they get filled up,” he said. “Once the appointments are full, then all the money is obligated.”

The best way to get an appointment is to go to www.coastalcap.org and make an appointment online. There is an online scheduler to make the appointment. Those without internet can call 360-660-5224, 360-986-0270, or 360-986-0053.

 
 
 
 
 

 

Recommended for You
Ocean Shores closes beach approaches, imposes curfew, may shut down hotels
Ocean Shores closes beach approaches, imposes curfew, may shut down hotels
Dear Abby: My husband of 35 years moved out three years ago.
Dear Abby: My husband of 35 years moved out three years ago.
Sponsored
1/5
NerdWallet
Daniel Ray Homchick
Daniel Ray Homchick
Best CBD Gummies On The Market In 2021 | Best Weed Edibles From Top CBD Brands Made With Strongest Hemp [Reviews & Buyer’s Guide]
Best CBD Gummies On The Market In 2021 | Best Weed Edibles From Top CBD Brands Made With Strongest Hemp [Reviews & Buyer’s Guide]
Most Read
Harbor Regional Health renames building after Warren family
A local husband and wife who got lucky when they won $40…

Dec 4th, 2021
Brother of late-Patricia Warren, Raymond Lee, stands with a cane next to his adopted daughter Jarlene Lee. The two family members were in attendance for the ribbon-cutting on Wednesday, Dec. 1, to celebrate the renamed Richard and Patricia Warren Medical Services Building, which sits at 1006 North H. St. (Matthew N. Wells | The Daily World)
Montesano rallies to overcome 15-point deficit, beat Raymond
Dalan scores 24 points, Bulldogs outrebound Seagulls to earn 54-51 victory

Dec 5th, 2021 by RYAN SPARKS 
TEASER
Friday Roundup: Troeh scores 27 to lead Aberdeen to win over Elma
Also: Gore leads Aberdeen to win over Elma in girls basketball; Hoquiam boys fall to Centralia

Dec 5th, 2021 by RYAN SPARKS 
Weekend Roundup: Aberdeen wins Ocosta Invitational wrestling meet
Also: Walker scores 26 to lead Grays Harbor College to first win of season

Dec 6th, 2021 by RYAN SPARKS 
Rent, utility help available for Grays Harbor families
Anyone in need of financial breathing room ought to give a call…

Dec 5th, 2021
Craig Dublanko, CEO of Coastal Community Action Program, urges Grays Harbor County residents in need of rental and utility assistance to hurry up and call his program, or log on to www.coastalcap.org, to set up an appointment.
 
 
© 2021, The Daily World and Sound Publishing, Inc.
Subscribe Email Newsletters About Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact Us

Close
