Skip to main content
Enable accessibility for
visually impaired
Open the accessibility
menu
Accessibility Widget
___
 41°F
Sign In	Subscribe
File photo
Black drivers disproportionately pulled over by WSP in King, Pierce counties
A study by WSU researchers examined over 3 million traffic stops performed by WSP officers.

By Henry Stewart-Wood
Monday, December 6, 2021 12:31pmNEWSNORTHWEST
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite finding no evidence of significant statewide bias, Washington State Patrol officers disproportionately pull over Black drivers in King and Pierce counties, according to a study by Washington State University researchers.

The study, which examined 3.4 million traffic stops between Jan. 1, 2015, to Dec. 31, 2019, found that no groups were “significantly” over-represented in officer contacts or calls for service, according to the study.

The study compared the officer contact data with census data. A demographic is over-represented if they are stopped at a rate higher than their proportion of the statewide population. The study defines “significant over-representation” as a difference of 5 percent or more.


However, there were still disparities in officer-initiated contacts, according to the study. Black drivers made up 5.7% of officer-initiated traffic stops during the four years examined despite only making up 4.3% of the total population in Washington, according to the Office of Financial Management.

In 2019, that disparity was even larger and Black drivers accounted for 6.2% of all stops initiated by state patrol officers, according to the study.

White people made up 74.4% of officer-initiated traffic stops despite making up 78.2% of the total state population, according to OFM.

The disparities between Black and white drivers was even higher in King and Pierce counties, according to the study. In King County, 11.5% of officer-initiated stops were of Black drivers, who make up 7% of the county’s population. White drivers made up 62.3% of stops, but 66.2% of the population.

In Pierce County, Black drivers are significantly over-represented in officer-initiated stops as they made up 12.7% of stops, but 7.7% of the total population. Conversely, white drivers are underrepresented, making up 68.8% of stops and 74.3% of the population.

The researchers at WSU created a disparity index to determine if disproportionalities exist for ethnic or racial groups on a statewide level. The index shows that white people are stopped at a rate that would be expected considering their proportion of the population.

Black drivers are over-represented when compared to their proportion of the population and all other races are underrepresented, according to the study.

In addition to this, the study found that Black, Hispanic and Native American drivers were more likely to be searched by WSP officers than white drivers, according to the study.

Despite being less likely to be searched, white people were more likely to actually have contraband compared to Black and Hispanic people between 2015 and 2019, according to the study. Native American people were less likely to actually have contraband compared to white people in 2018 and 2019, despite being searched more often, according to the study.

The study concluded that this could indicate WSP officers have lower probable cause standards for Black, Hispanic and Native American drivers compared to their white counterparts, according to the study.

WSU researchers plan to continue working with the WSP to address the disparities for Black and Hispanic drivers, according to the study.


Talk to us

Please share your story tips by emailing editor@federalwaymirror.com.

To share your opinion for publication, submit a letter through our website https://www.federalwaymirror.com/submit-letter/. Include your name, address and daytime phone number. (We’ll only publish your name and hometown.) Please keep letters to 300 words or less.

Previous
PHOTOS: Federal Way residents celebrate holiday tree lighting
More in News
File photo
Black drivers disproportionately pulled over by WSP in King, Pierce counties
A study by WSU researchers examined over 3 million traffic stops performed by WSP officers.

Olivia Sullivan/the Mirror
PHOTOS: Federal Way residents celebrate holiday tree lighting
The tree lighting ceremony was held Dec. 4.

A birds-eye view of South King County overlooks the city of Federal Way and provides a peek at Mount Rainier in the distance. Photo courtesy of Bruce Honda
South King mayors meet to address crime, gun violence
The mayors of Federal Way, Kent, Auburn and Renton attended the Dec. 3 meeting.

Screenshot
King County weather: Dec. 3-5
Here is your King County area weather forecast for Dec. 3-5, 2021.… Continue reading

Keith Wagoner
Senator becomes first GOP candidate for secretary of state
Sen. Keith Wagoner will challenge Democrat Steve Hobbs, who was appointed to the statewide post in November

tsr
Federal Way leaders set Retail Safety Summit for Jan. 20
Meeting to develop strategies to reduce shoplifting, organized retail crime.

The Federal Way Performing Arts and Event Center is located at 31510 Pete von Reichbauer Way S. Olivia Sullivan/the Mirror
FEMA to send mobile COVID-19 vaccination unit to Western Washington
The mobile site is set to open Dec. 20 in Federal Way; additional locations to come.

tsr
Federal Way Mirror Female Athlete of the Week for Dec. 3: Evelyn Stillgebauer
Thomas Jefferson High School senior recent bowled 190 in a game against Decatur.

tsr
Federal Way Mirror Male Athlete of the Week for Dec. 3: Jacob Hurskin
TJHS freshman is on the varsity basketball team.

Most Read
Residents, city officials say ‘Not in Federal Way’ to Sound Transit’s OMF site selection
Board of Directors to select a preferred alternative site in December.

(L-R) Homeowner in S. 344th Street neighborhood Mia Franklin, GarageTown unit owner Peter Barbin, and GarageTown Condominium Association President Brad Thorson. Henry Stewart-Wood/Sound Publishing
Man throws hot soup on employee | Police blotter
Following is a sample from the Federal Way police log Nov. 17-21.

File photo
Message from the Police Chief: Addressing a surge of violence in Federal Way
There have been eight murders in Federal Way so far this year, police chief says.

Federal Way Police Chief Andy Hwang. Courtesy photo
Boy, 10, escapes possible abduction while walking home from school | Police blotter
Following is a sample from the Federal Way police log Nov. 22-30.

File photo
Federal Way man accused of shooting homeless man over stolen drugs
Michael Le, 28, has been charged with murder and is being held on $2 million bail.

Calvary Lutheran Church in Federal Way. Courtesy photo
Recommended for You
PHOTOS: Halloween weekend 2021 in Federal Way
PHOTOS: Halloween weekend 2021 in Federal Way
Nutroxyn Reviews - Advanced Erectile Dysfunction Support?
Nutroxyn Reviews - Advanced Erectile Dysfunction Support?
Sponsored
1/5
NerdWallet
Federal Way man fatally shot in Kent
Federal Way man fatally shot in Kent
Bipartisan commission fails to draw new political boundaries
Bipartisan commission fails to draw new political boundaries
 
 
 
 
© 2021, Federal Way Mirror and Sound Publishing, Inc.
Subscribe Print Editions Newsletters About Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact Us

Close
