
Search...
User Dashboard
News
Sports
Gorge Life
Business
Opinion
Obituaries
Multimedia
Announcements
e-Edition
Special
Classifieds
Columbia Gorge News Hood River News The Dalles Chronicle White Salmon Enterprise
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Covid-19 update: County death count continues to rise	
Covid-19 update: County death count continues to rise
Vax Report: Pfizer 100% effective in youth 12-15

FEATURED
The Dalles to tackle climate crisis: City to create climate change task force
By Alana Lackner, Columbia Gorge News Dec 1, 2021 
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
The Dalles City Council decided Monday, Nov. 22, to create a climate change task force following a presentation by Debi Ferrer on behalf of Protect Oregon’s Progress. The efforts to create the task force will be coordinated by Interim City Manager Daniel Hunter in collaboration with Ferrer and Mayor Rich Mays.

Ferrer’s presentation spoke to the dangers of climate change, especially on a local level. She referenced a study performed by news organization InvestigateWest in conjunction with a planning firm called Headwaters Economics. In this study, they mapped the vulnerability of Oregon and Washington cities and towns to climate change.

In the study, they found that various communities in the Pacific Northwest were at risk for climate-fueled natural disasters. They found 152 communities were at risk for climate-fueled wildfires, 60 were at risk for flooding and 75 were at risk for extreme heat.

Ferrer said that many of the cities and towns were at risk for two of these disasters, but only two communities in the Pacific Northwest were found to be at risk for all three: Grand Coulee, Wash., and The Dalles.

The presentation went on to discuss a few potential means of combating climate change, including switching gas-powered city vehicles to electric ones. Ferrer also pointed out that a lot of other communities in the Gorge have begun to take steps, and said The Dalles could use those communities as inspiration.

The innovations adopted throughout the Gorge included Hood River’s 2018 energy plan, Mosier’s plans to build electric vehicle charging stations and a bike hub among other things, as well as White Salmon’s decision to pass a climate emergency resolution in March of this year.

After presenting a list of potential changes the city could make, Ferrer told the council that what Protect Oregon’s Progress was asking for was for the city to form a climate action plan task force, provide a staff member to lead the task force, and finally include climate change action in their 2040 vision.

Following Ferrer’s presentation, Councilors Dan Richardson and Darcy Long expressed support in regards to moving forward with a task force. However, Councilor Rod Runyon expressed uncertainty about creating a task force immediately, instead wishing to defer to Interim City Manager Hunter to conduct research on the topic. Councilor Long then stressed the importance of acting now, rather than waiting and being held up by the holiday season. The council ultimately agreed that Hunter, with the help of the mayor as well as Ferrer, would begin work on a task force.

When public comment opened, many community members expressed support for climate change action, including Mayor Arlene Burns of Mosier, who spoke to actions Mosier has taken to help with climate change. She also mentioned that they’ve been able to attain government funding to assist with their efforts, and then commended The Dalles for taking needed steps.

“I really applaud you and encourage you to take this with gusto,” Burns said. “I think having people in the community that are passionate and interested in what the solutions are makes a better future for all of us.”

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

Tags
Debi Ferrer Climate Change Task Force Darcy Long Politics Daniel Hunter Rod Runyon
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
MORE FROM THIS SECTION
Senior News: Navigating past hurts and slights during the holiday
Senior News: Navigating past hurts and slights during the holiday
Starlight Parade kicks off ‘Shop Small Season’
Starlight Parade kicks off ‘Shop Small Season’
 +5Bringing eye care closer to home: OHSU trains community health workers for statewide network
Bringing eye care closer to home: OHSU trains community health workers for statewide network
TOP JOBS
District Manager - The Dalles Irrigation District
GIS/CAD Technician or Utility Worker
HOOD RIVER COUNTY IS
MEDICAL ASSISTANT Columbia Gorge
ACCOUNTING ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT I
View all jobs
SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS
Columbia Gorge News
Sign up to receive notifications when a new Columbia Gorge News e-Edition is published.

News Updates
Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!

Obituary updates
Receive weekly updates on obituaries and death notices.

Oregon Capital Press
Oregon Capital Press presented by Columbia Gorge News

Promotions
Receive updates on upcoming promotions and special sections.

Sports updates
Receive weekly updates on local sports news.

News and Info from our Community Partners

Information from the News and our advertisers (Want to add your business to this to this feed?)

MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Three dead in collision on I-84 near The Dalles
Two White Salmon teenagers crash car into The Hook basin
Deaths and services: Dec. 1, 2021 edition
Drug ring had ties to Hood River
Covid-19 update: County death count continues to rise
Obituary: Teddy Smith
Obituary: Wanda Taylor
Obituary: Dan Lindley
Deaths and services: Nov. 24, 2021
Obituary: Orville Blaylock

SECTIONS
Hood River News
The Dalles Chronicle News
White Salmon Enterprise News
Hood River Sports
The Dalles Chronicle Sports
White Salmon Enterprise Sports
Hood River News Obituaries
The Dalles Chronicle Obituaries
White Salmon Enterprise Obituaries
Local Events
Multimedia
Online Features
SERVICES
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Promote Your Event
Email Alerts
Search
Weather
Marketplace
COLUMBIA GORGE NEWS
columbiagorgenews.com
PO Box 390
Hood River, OR 97031
Phone: 541-386-1234
Email: info@gorgenews.com
   

© Copyright 2021 Columbia Gorge News, PO Box 390 Hood River, OR | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
