Skip to main content
Enable accessibility for
visually impaired
Open the accessibility
menu
Accessibility Widget
___
 39°F
Sign In	Subscribe
William Talbott II at the Snohomish County Courthouse on July 24, 2019, in Everett, before a judge sentenced him to life without parole for murdering a young Canadian couple in 1987. (Andy Bronson / The Herald)
William Talbott II at the Snohomish County Courthouse on July 24, 2019, in Everett, before a judge sentenced him to life without parole for murdering a young Canadian couple in 1987. (Andy Bronson / The Herald)

Cold-case murder conviction reversed due to juror’s bias
William Talbott, the world's first convicted forensic genealogy defendant, was accused of killing a young Canadian couple in 1987.

By Caleb Hutton
Monday, December 6, 2021 12:57pmLOCAL NEWSNORTHWESTEVERETTMONROE
 
 
 
 
 
 
EVERETT — Cold-case defendant William Talbott’s aggravated murder convictions were reversed Monday on appeal due to a juror’s bias, more than two years after a high-profile trial in the 1987 killings of a young Canadian couple, Jay Cook and Tanya Van Cuylenborg.

Snohomish County sheriff’s detectives arrested Talbott in May 2018, with the help of forensic genealogy — a then-novel technique where crime scene DNA evidence can be combined with a genealogist’s sleuthing to identify a suspect through public ancestry databases.

Holiday 2020 offer
Talbott became the first person in the world to be convicted by a jury in such a case. He was sentenced to life in prison for two counts of aggravated murder in the first degree.

The investigation, trial and conviction drew international coverage and television specials.

Meanwhile, Talbott appealed.

RELATED
Life in prison for 1987 killer of young Canadian couple Life in prison for 1987 killer of young Canadian coupleJUL 24, 2019
Jurors share why they found Talbott guilty of double murderJUL 7, 2019
Man guilty of 1987 murders solved with genetic genealogyJUN 28, 2019
Three Division I judges on the state Court of Appeals found Monday that one of the jurors, No. 40, demonstrated “actual bias” while being questioned during jury selection and that further questioning had not clarified that she could set aside her biases and base her verdict strictly on the evidence.

Under questioning from attorneys, the juror expressed that “if it’s a case involving violence and women, it’s just something that I’ve already experienced in my life, and I fear that I will always inherently have as a mother, so that’s just the one thing that I probably couldn’t get past.”

“I mean,” a deputy prosecutor asked, “you would be a great juror on a different kind of case, it’s just not this kind of case.”

The juror replied that he was right.

She went on to say that she was unsure if she could be fair because “a flood of emotion might come over me … and cloud my judgment.”

“After her clear, repeated expressions of actual bias as to the precise nature of the allegations at the heart of this trial and evidence which would be introduced, we cannot conclude that juror 40 was sufficiently rehabilitated such that Talbott was provided a fair and impartial jury,” reads the ruling, authored by Court of Appeals Judge Cecily Hazelrigg.

Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)
Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)

Talbott’s appellate attorneys raised many other issues related to the evidence in the case, as did Talbott in court papers he prepared himself.

Only the question of juror bias was addressed in the ruling Monday.

The court did not address any concerns related to forensic genealogy.

Cook and Van Cuylenborg, of Vancouver Island, were on a trip to Seattle to pick up furnace parts on Nov. 18, 1987. Within days, their bodies were found many miles away.

Cook had been beaten, strangled and left dead beside a bridge near Monroe.

Van Cuylenborg had been shot in the head near Mount Vernon.

No suspect was arrested for over 30 years. Then DNA linked Talbott to the crime.

You can read the ruling here.

This is a developing story. Check back for updates.

Caleb Hutton: 425-339-3454; chutton@heraldnet.com. Twitter: @snocaleb.

Caleb Hutton image	
Caleb Hutton is an investigative journalist for The Daily Herald with a background of reporting on breaking news, justice and social issues. Learn more about Caleb.

Talk to us

You can tell us about news and ask us about our journalism by emailing newstips@heraldnet.com or by calling 425-339-3428.
If you have an opinion you wish to share for publication, send a letter to the editor to letters@heraldnet.com or by regular mail to The Daily Herald, Letters, P.O. Box 930, Everett, WA 98206.
More contact information is here.
Get Our Afternoon Headlines Newsletter
Local news delivered to your inbox every afternoon.
Daily Headlines Button with firefighter	
Email:
Gallery
Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)
Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)

Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)

Tanya Van Cuylenborg (left) and Jay Cook. (Family photos)

Previous
State Rep. Lovick gets nod for state Senate
More in Local News
Voyager Middle School.
Shooting threat at Mukilteo schools was a joke, student says
Four threats of violence in 48 hours were reported at Snohomish County schools in the wake of a shooting at a Michigan high school.

Prosecuting attorney, Taryn Jones gives the state's opening statement to start the trial of Ryan Leenders for first-degree murder Friday morning at the Snohomish County Superior Courthouse on December 3, 2021. (Kevin Clark / The Herald)
Trial opens for Everett man charged with killing party guest
A defense attorney claimed Ryan Leenders mistook a vape pen for a gun when he shot William Harper, who was not armed.

Girl, 1, dies from gunshot wound near Granite Falls
Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office deputies were investigating the weapons assault report Saturday night.

‘Prolonged neglect’: Darrington woman charged with starving horses
After a months-long investigation, the woman is accused of neglecting her animals.

State officials confirm first 3 cases of omicron variant
The cases were found in Thurston, Pierce and King counties, according to the state Department of Health.

Man dies in 140-foot fall from Arlington cellphone tower
The man, in his 30s, fell about just after 1:30 p.m. Saturday while working.

Preston "Buddy" Dwoskin served as the head referee at the inaugural Buddy Bowl football game two years ago at Everett Memorial Stadium. (Contributed photo) 20211203
Anti-bullying ‘Buddy Bowl’ game set for Saturday in Marysville
Preston Dwoskin, a public speaker with special needs, organized the football festivities. He would like you to be there.

Police: Man kills himself on I-5 on-ramp, leading to closure
Marysville police were making a traffic stop when the man pulled over near 88th Street NE, got out and fired a gun.

Everett man, 83, dies in hit-and-run
Detectives are seeking public assistance to find the driver whose vehicle struck Soong H. Park on Tuesday night.

Most Read
Police: Man kills himself on I-5 on-ramp, leading to closure
Marysville police were making a traffic stop when the man pulled over near 88th Street NE, got out and fired a gun.

Lake Stevens councilmember says he profited off Costco deal
Until now, Marcus Tageant would not confirm his role in the multimillion-dollar sale of acreage that is soon to be a Costco.

Houses at the end of the 2100 block of 93rd Drive SE in Lake Stevens used to front a forest. Now the property has been clearcut to make way for a new Costco store near the intersection of Highway 9 and 20th Street SE. (Chuck Taylor / The Herald)
Man dies in 140-foot fall from Arlington cellphone tower
The man, in his 30s, fell about just after 1:30 p.m. Saturday while working.

Some Lake Stevens homeowners now must buy flood insurance
Updated FEMA maps show some lakeside homes now sit in a designated flood hazard area, due to a warming climate.

Lake Stevens resident Rick Trout shows a Feb. 2020 photo of the rising lake level in front of his home after a storm. (Isabella Breda / The Herald)
Anti-bullying ‘Buddy Bowl’ game set for Saturday in Marysville
Preston Dwoskin, a public speaker with special needs, organized the football festivities. He would like you to be there.

Preston "Buddy" Dwoskin served as the head referee at the inaugural Buddy Bowl football game two years ago at Everett Memorial Stadium. (Contributed photo) 20211203
Recommended for You
Building Communities
Building Communities
Editorial cartoons for Friday, Dec. 3
Editorial cartoons for Friday, Dec. 3
Sponsored Searches
Editorial: Help pick a route for Everett’s transit future
Editorial: Help pick a route for Everett’s transit future
Prep results for Friday, Dec. 3
Prep results for Friday, Dec. 3
 
 
 
 
 
© 2021, Everett Herald and Sound Publishing, Inc.

About Contact Site Map Newsletters Subscribe Contests Privacy policy Terms of Use Accessibility Social Media

Close
Subscribe Today!