
Hometown Holidays comes to downtown Camas this week
Camas library will host annual book sale Thursday through Sunday, Dec. 2-5
By Kelly Moyer | December 2, 2021 11:02 am |    comments


A group gathers for a photo inside Camas Antique's front window during the 2018 Camas Hometown Holidays celebration on Dec. 7, 2018. (Kelly Moyer/Post-Record files)

After having to cancel the event in 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the city of Camas is once again hosting its popular Hometown Holidays event in historic downtown Camas.

The 2021 Hometown Holidays festivities kick off at 5 p.m. Friday, Dec. 3, and will coincide with the Downtown Camas Association’s December First Friday event.

Downtown Camas will be bustling from 5 to 8 p.m. Friday, Dec. 3, with live and pre-recorded entertainment, modified photos with Santa (participants should bring their own cameras), crafts activity bags for the children, street food vendors, the lighting of the holiday tree and downtown restaurants and shops open for business.

The 2021 Hometown Holidays and associated activities are free of charge thanks to the financial support of Columbia Credit Union, Windermere Real Estate, Downtown Camas Association, Equipment Rental Services and in-kind donors and volunteers. Attendees also will have the opportunity to purchase food from Camas’ various downtown restaurants and food vendors, and shop for holiday gifts in Camas’ historic downtown business district.

“We are so happy to be bringing back this favorite event after a year’s hiatus,” said Krista Bashaw, special events coordinator for the city of Camas. “It gets us in the mood for the holidays and it brings our community together to share some of the joy of the season.”

For more information, visit cityofcamas.us/hometown2021. The city will require all attendees to wear face coverings and practice social distancing when possible, in accordance with state mandates related to the ongoing pandemic.

Camas library’s annual book sale kicks off on Thursday, Dec. 2

The Camas Public Library will hold its annual Hometown Holidays book sale Thursday through Sunday, Dec. 2-5, with extended hours until 8 p.m. during the Hometown Holidays event.

The book sale, held in the library’s second-story rooms, will feature thousands of donated items, from children’s picture books and cookbooks to thrillers and romances.

All proceeds benefit the Friends & Foundation of the Camas Library.

The book sale will be held from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 2, and Saturday, Dec. 4; from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Friday, Dec. 3; and from noon to 4 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 5.

During the sale, hardbound books will be sold for $2 each; and paperbacks, as well as children’s books, will be sold for $1 each. On Sunday, Dec. 5, the final day of the sale, shoppers can fill a standard size shopping bag (bring your own bag) with sale items for $5.

The Camas library is located at 625 N.E. Fourth Ave., Camas. For more information, visit camaslibraryfriends.org/book-sales.

Kelly Moyer
