Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on tdn.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Longview Daily News
BREAKING EDITOR'S PICK TOP STORY
Major Kalama water break leads to boil notice
Brennen Kauffman 3 hrs ago  0
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Kalama water repair
Hendrickson Road is closed Dec. 6 while the City of Kalama repairs a break in the water main.

Brennen Kauffman
A "catastrophic" break in the Kalama water system Monday morning triggered a full water shutoff at the Port of Kalama and a boil notice for some city residents.

The break in the water line occurred around 1 a.m. Monday, according to city administrator Adam Smee. Several hours later, city crews located the break near the intersection of Hendrickson Drive and Wilson Drive and began working to contain the damage.

A boil notice is in effect for residents on Kalama River Road, Meeker Drive north of Nectarine Drive and the North Port Industrial Area. During a boil notice, residents are instructed to bring water to a rolling boil for at least one minute to kill possible bacteria, then let it cool before using it or storing it for later use.

"We are asking all residents to conserve water usage until we can produce more water," states a press release from the City of Kalama. The city said the two million gallon reservoir was running at a low level Monday morning, but was being brought back online by Kalama Public Works crews.

People are also reading…
Alleged intoxicated driver causes three-vehicle accident on State Route 504 on Monday
NORPAC workers announce unionization effort with ILWU
One person injured in Sunday shooting near Rainier
Police Blotter: Alleged assault on Longview's Beech Street sends man to the hospital Thursday
Water was fully shut down to the north and central sections of the Port of Kalama in order to isolate the leak. McMenamin's Harbor Lodge and the locations along Tidewater Drive are believed to not be affected by the water line break.

Smee said the boil order likely would be in place until at least Wednesday afternoon as water samples needed to be cleared by the Department of Health before the emergency order ended.

The cause of the line break is still being investigated. Smee said the city hoped to have the break repaired by the end of the day Monday.

2
3
Tags
Kalama River Resident Fleet Harbor Water Line Adam Smee Boil City Commerce
Get local news delivered to your inbox!
Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Brennen Kauffman
Reporter

Author email
Most Popular
Police Blotter: Woman allegedly slaps employee Monday after being asked to wear mask inside Longview business
Police Blotter: Woman allegedly slaps employee Monday after being asked to wear mask inside Longview business
Recent reports of criminal activity from our local law enforcement agencies.

Inslee appoints Kelso man to vacant Cowlitz County commission seat
Inslee appoints Kelso man to vacant Cowlitz County commission seat
A Kelso resident who had not initially applied for the vacant Cowlitz County Commissioner District 3 seat was appointed to the position Thursd…

Kelso police seeking public's help identifying shoplift, hit-and-run suspect
Kelso police seeking public's help identifying shoplift, hit-and-run suspect
If anyone recognizes the vehicle or person, police are asking they contact Officer Sarah Brent at sbrent@kelso.gov. Reference case number 21-3259.

Longview man arrested for suspected vehicular assault DUI on Monday in Clark County
Longview man arrested for suspected vehicular assault DUI on Monday in Clark County
A Longview man was arrested for suspicion of vehicular assault while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol when he allegedly caused …

Police asking for help identifying driver in fatal Woodland hit-and-run that sent car into lake
Police asking for help identifying driver in fatal Woodland hit-and-run that sent car into lake
Law enforcement is asking for the public's help in finding the other car involved. It's a dark colored SUV with significant damage to the front passenger side and it fled southbound, Finn said. 

NORPAC workers announce unionization effort with ILWU
NORPAC workers announce unionization effort with ILWU
According to NW Labor Press, International Longshore and Warehouse Union Local 21 filed a petition asking the National Labor Relations Board to hold an election for about 160 papermakers at the mill. There are also efforts underway to organize roughly 220 other workers at the mill who work in maintenance, warehouse, fiberline and flexpool.

Police Blotter: Cowlitz County sheriff's deputies arrest Longview man on suspicion of child molestation
Police Blotter: Cowlitz County sheriff's deputies arrest Longview man on suspicion of child molestation
Recent reports of criminal activity from our local law enforcement agencies.

Jo’s Country Market asking for community help to rebuild after fire
Jo’s Country Market asking for community help to rebuild after fire
There are two donation accounts set up for community members who want to help Krause rebuild. One is at Fibre Federal Credit Union and one is at Wauna Federal Credit Union under YvonneKrause/JosCountryMarket.

Holiday parades and light shows kick off across Cowlitz County this weekend
Holiday parades and light shows kick off across Cowlitz County this weekend
This weekend kicks off the holiday parade and celebration season for Cowlitz County, the most wonderful time of the year.

Police Blotter: Alleged assault on Longview's Beech Street sends man to the hospital Thursday
Police Blotter: Alleged assault on Longview's Beech Street sends man to the hospital Thursday
Recent reports of criminal activity from our local law enforcement agencies.

Watch Now: Related Video
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics
WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics
Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined'
Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined'
Longview Daily News
   
Sites & Partners
Preps+
Calendar
Legals
Online Features
Services
Contact Us
Place an ad
Subscribe Now
E-Edition
NIE
Work here
Become a Carrier
© Copyright 2021 The Daily News, 770 11th Ave Longview,WA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

