'Star Wars' villains will take over Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade on Nov. 27
Andre Lamar
Delaware News Journal








Last year Saint Nick wanted to flex in his magic sleigh through Market Street for the Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade.

But he never made it out of the North Pole because of COVID-19-related travel restrictions. 

This Thanksgiving weekend, however, the guy in the red suit will make an appearance during the return of the 57th annual Wilmington Christmas Parade on Saturday, Nov. 27.

Aside from charming kids with his magnetic personality, it’s unclear if the jolly Jedi from the North Pole will show off any of his other Force powers.   

Baddies from Star Wars, who are members of the 501st Legion of Star Wars, will invade the 57th annual Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade on Nov. 27.
Ironically, Santa will be joined with some new characters, including "Star Wars" baddies who will escort him through the streets of Wilmington.

“This year we are really excited to bring a few new special guests to our lineup including, but not limited to, Tamala Edwards from 6abc — as well as the 501 Legion of Star Wars actors,” said Josh Hoveln, president of the Wilmington Jaycees.

“We also will be featuring some newly decorated floats this year, which we know everyone will enjoy.

Delaware voiceover family:Sweet-talked their way into working with Nike and Netflix

Hoveln said this year’s parade will feature an extended route – starting at Second and Market streets and it’ll continue up to 11th and Market. The grandstand will remain at 10th and Market.

The extended route was decided after parade organizers spoke with many small businesses.

“One of the best and unique parts of the parade is that we have intentionally scheduled the event [to] fall on Small Business Saturday,” Hoveln said.

“We bring families and individuals of the community out to enjoy the parade in the morning, and then they can kick off the holiday shopping season by strolling up and down Market Street to shop small at the businesses."

After two years on the sidelines, Santa Claus will return to the 57th annual Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade on Nov. 27.
There will be a Downtown Holiday Village located on the 500 block of Market St. where folks will find all kinds of small businesses set up.

Comedian Michael Blackson: Wants to see you 'modasuckas' in Wilmington on Thanksgiving weekend

Another special part of the Christmas parade is all the children of Wilmington are encouraged to write their letters to Santa and bring them to the parade.

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
Hoveln said kids who provide their name and address in their letter will get a response from Santa before Christmas.

Delaware State Fair gives 2022 sneak peak:With ZZ Top, Sam Hunt, Nelly and TobyMac

The last Wilmington Christmas Parade was held in 2019 and featured about 98 different units (floats, walkers, marching bands, etc.). This year’s parade anticipates hosting about 100 units.

After being away for two years, this holiday parade should warm the hearts of Wilmingtonians like a fresh Wawa coffee without the cardboard sleeve. 

“This has been one of the city's premier holiday events," Hoveln said.

"We are prouder than ever to continue our partnership with the city to bring this great kickoff to the season, to all the residents of Wilmington and the surrounding communities." 

The 57th annual Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade (starting at Second and Market streets in Wilmington) begins at 11 a.m. Nov. 27. For more information, visit wilmingtonjaycees.org or  (302) 428-9529