Open Call: New Winterthur CEO invites you to give the gift of Delaware this season
Chris StrandGuest columnist








I know the temperature has not quite put us in the mood for the holidays, but here at Winterthur all signs point to Yuletide.

There are decorations, trees, swag, artificial snow and firepits popping up everywhere. Yet despite the happy signs of the holidays, when I talk to staff and visitors there are whispered concerns about inflation and '‘supply chain issues.'’ The possibility that a special gift, ordered months in advance, will be stuck floating off the coast in a shipping container feels very real and it preoccupies a lot of us as we think about our kids and loved ones.

The dried flower tree at Winterthur Museum if a fixture of Yuletide.
Which is why I would like to take a moment, as the new CEO of Winterthur, to not be purely self-promoting, but instead highlight the unique advantages of living in Delaware.

Let me reassure you (and your kids), that I am not suggesting you abstain from giving gifts. But I am suggesting you consider giving “experiences” in addition to presents. Some of my best holiday memories are of time spent with family doing something special. If you share in a wonderful experience, you have that memory forever.

Chris Strand is the newly appointed Charles F. Montgomery Director and CEO of Winterthur. He formerly directed the garden and estate.
Special experiences are exactly why we are so lucky to live in Delaware.

Of course, I would love for you to visit Winterthur, and I know our staff and volunteers will be ready to roll out the red carpet to all the families who want to enjoy the over-the-top decorations in the house, stroll the grounds, enjoy our exhibitions, celebrate at a Yuletide performance or program, and shop in our store. I hope to see you there!

But, the opportunities for holiday experiences extend far beyond our little corner of northern Delaware, and I feel an obligation to point out how lucky we are and how many memorable experiences are there just waiting for us.

I want to highlight a few:

At Holidays at Hagley, experience time-honored holiday traditions.
If you have visited Hagley before then you know how special it is. This year, Holidays at Hagley is celebrating “Home for the Holidays” with decorations in its historic home and stories about the families who lived there.

Its fourth annual gingerbread house contest is expected to have nearly 50 entries and will feature Christmas caroling and tree decorating. It has special events sprinkled through the calendar too, such as visits with Santa and Twilight Tours after hours.

Hagley is extending free admission to “Hometown Heroes.” Please check its website for details.

Original ornaments on a Christmas tree at Nemours Mansion and Gardens.
Nemours is opening the first floor of the Mansion for tours, as well as the Chauffeur’s garage. 

More Open Call: For Newark Arts Alliance, the future looks bright

More Open Call: First State Ballet brings dance back to Delaware with intimate performances

Decorations will be brought outdoors for the first time and, with extended hours on select evenings, visitors will be able to get food from food trucks and hot chocolate. A toy drive will take place from Dec. 6 to 18 to benefit the pediatric patients at Nemours Children’s Health.

The Delaware Art Museum, in addition to its amazing exhibitions, will host a number of events through the holidays, including its Winter Arts Festival, "Celebrate! Pyxis' at the Holidays,'' and the Wilmington Ballet’s "Nutcracker.''

Wilmington Ballet will partner with Delaware Art Museum this holiday season.
In Hockessin, you can take your family to Auburn Heights and the Marshall Steam Museum on November 27 for a Steamin’ Thanksgiving featuring the world’s largest collection of Stanley Steamer steam-driven cars, model trains, food and other activities.

Or make a trip to Old New Castle to stroll The Green and visit the Read House & Gardens decked out in holiday splendor.

The Brandywine Zoo is ready to greet you for the holidays.
The Brandywine Zoo was always a favorite for our family and, in addition to the antics of the animals, it is hosting holiday gift workshops and Santa at the Zoo.

The Delaware Children’s Museum has its regular robust schedule of activities, including a "Winter Wonderland'' program where they explore the science and art of ice, snow, and other cold weather phenomena — a perfect program to pair with Riverfront Wilmington’s return of the Riverfront Ice Skating Rink.

Force is with Santa:Star Wars villains will take over Wilmington Jaycees Christmas Parade on Nov. 27

First State wish lists:2021 Christmas gifts you can buy in Del. to avoid supply shortage drama

This Open Call column is my Christmas card to Wilmington. I hope, like me, that you appreciate these wonderful organizations.

We are incredibly lucky in Delaware to be surrounded by entertaining and engaging cultural opportunities. The pandemic has been hard on all of these non-profits and yet, despite the challenges, they have continued to offer meaningful programs and experiences for our families.

I am very grateful that I live in a community that has so much to offer and I appreciate the work of all of these organizations, their staffs, and their volunteers. Happy holidays.