With omicron variant lurking, COVID-19 cases in Delaware reach highs not seen since January
José Ignacio Castañeda Perez
Delaware News Journal








Delaware saw the highest number of new daily COVID-19 cases since January on Dec. 3, according to state data. 

There were 776 new positive cases on Dec. 3, reaching rates not seen since the beginning of the year. The number represents a sharp uptick from the 285 new positive cases that were reported four days earlier, on Nov. 29, according to state data. 

At the end of November, health officials predicted that the state would experience a spike in the number of cases due to Thanksgiving gatherings. Officials mostly attributed the spike in recent weeks to people spending more time indoors. 

Recently, state officials warned residents to be cautious again as the state sees an uptick in cases and the country reels from the emergence of the omicron variant. 

While little is still known about the variant, the World Health Organization designated omicron a "variant of concern" after it was first reported in South Africa. President Joe Biden described it as a cause for concern, but "not a cause for panic." 

OMICRON:What are omicron variant symptoms? Everything to know about the latest coronavirus strain.

The first confirmed case of the variant in the U.S. was discovered on Dec. 1 in San Francisco; however, cases of the variant have now been identified in more than a dozen states. 

On Dec. 3, health officials identified the first case of the variant in Philadelphia alongside three separate cases that were confirmed near Baltimore in Maryland. 

As of Dec. 5, the variant has not yet been identified in Delaware. 

COVID-19 UPTICK:It's time to be cautious again, state warns, as Delaware sees increase in COVID-19 cases

Governor John Carney receives a Moderna COVID vaccine booster from Walgreens' Cristyl Cahall at the pharmacy chain's Union Street location in Wilmington, Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021.
In response to the new variant, state health officials have urged residents to continue taking precautions that are known to help protect against the virus. Officials continue to advise residents to get vaccinated, wear a mask in indoor public settings, socially distance and wash hands regularly. 

TRACKING OMICRON:Here's what US labs are doing to track Omicron cases and stop its spread

As of Dec. 3, 85.7% of Delaware adults have received at least one dose of the vaccine, according to state data. 