Ancient crab fossil found on Assateague Island
Kristian Jaime
Salisbury Daily Times







What started as a walk along the shores of Assateague Island National Seashore to clean up the area soon became a chance to discover a rare blue crab fossil potentially millions of years old.

The National Parks Service confirmed the find was more than the usual remains of marine life thanks to the Department of Paleobiology at the Smithsonian.

Sharon Conn, a visitor, found the fossil in early October on the beach in the Virginia portion of Assateague Island.

"It is very uncommon to find fossils of this nature. We have a very small number in our museum collection. That is what makes this discovery very exciting!" said Liz Davis, chief of interpretation and education for Assateague Island National Seashore.

A modern blue crab claw (top) is compared to the fossil of the blue crab claw (bottom) found on the shore of Assateague Island National Seashore earlier this week.
The dating was done by Matthew T. Miller, museum specialist at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C., and placed it in the Pleistocene age about 2 million to 12,000 years ago.

"The extra rock around it is a very well consolidated matrix that was so hard it didn’t readily erode," the Smithsonian said in a statement to Assateague Island National Seashore. "The claw did erode a bit though — which is why it isn’t immediately distinguishable as a claw. The tips are gone and parts of the infilled area where the original flesh would have been has shown through, making the whole specimen look a bit odd."

The blue crab fossil is considered a rare find for the area despite its odd shape.
Since the fossil was found on public land, they are protected by the 2009 Paleontological Resources Preservation Act and advised its returned.

Assateague Island National Seashore, sought by visitors for its wild horses, beaches and trails on the ocean and bay, is located just south of Ocean City and continues in Virginia, just north of Chincoteague Island.

Become a subscriber
Install the Delmarva Now app
Sign up for our email newsletters
"The fossil is currently at the NPS Toms Cove Visitor Center in Virginia. We hope to have a small collection of fossils on display at the NPS Assateague Island Visitor Center in Maryland later in 2022," David said.