Skip to content
Morgan Valley Weekly Tattoo Art Thailand
Best Tattoo Shops & Studios in Phuket

Home
How To Pick The Right Tattoo Artist Or Studio
February 17, 2021
If you plan to have a tattoo on your body, the most critical thing is to make sure that you get the right artist or studio. You do not want to get messed up. Besides, it is also good to know that if a mistake is made, it may have severe effects on your body. So, it is crucial to take the time to get the best artist who will do a tattoo or tattoos that everyone will admire. You should take time to compare the different artist as you check the tattoos they have done to decide if they are worth hiring. This article offers you some of the tips on how to get good quality ink from a trusted Phuket Tattoo studio.

Meet several artists or studios
You should not just pick the first tattoo artist you come across as you do your search. Like you do when you are looking for other professionals, it is worth taking time to compare the different artists until you get the one with the best tattoo services. Take time to check their work and ask for recommendations on the best artist you can trust. If you can, take time to watch them as they do tattoos on other clients to find if they are worth your money and body. Be sure to ask them as many questions as possible to find out if they are friendly and approachable. You should work with a tattoo artist you are comfortable with. You should also work with a tattoo artist who shows high-level confidence with the work they do.

Scrutinize their past work
By checking the tattoos that your potential artist has done, you can develop confidence with what they offer. By doing this, you will find out if they offer the quality of the tattoo they claim. You can see live examples or view photos. Do not check in a rush because you are bound to make costly mistakes in the process. A good artist should be able to do smooth tattoos. The colours should be bold with no blank areas. If it is a circle, it should not look like an oval. Be very objective as you check the tattoos your potential artists have done.

Listen to your relatives, friends or co-workers.
Other people who have a tattoo done perfectly on their bodies can offer you good recommendations on the studio or artist to get your services. Your friends or relatives can also be a good source of information. If they had a bad experience with your potential artist or studio, they will tell you. On the other hand, if they were satisfied with a particular artist, they would recommend them. You should not be afraid to ask if you meet someone with a good looking tattoo for recommendations.

Price
Look for a tattoo artist charging an affordable price for their services. Compare the price charged by the different artists to get one with a price matching your budget. However, do not fall on the cheapest options because they may leave you disappointed with bad tattoos.


Tattoo Studio
Why You Should Have A Tattoo On Your Body
February 7, 2021
Everyone has their opinions about tattoos, whether against or in favor. Tattoos have many aesthetic benefits, making them the main reason most people love them. Moreover, it makes you more expressive, confident, and beautifies your body. According to science, there are more fascinating ways you will benefit from tattoos that you could not be aware of. Below benefits will help you understand why having a tattoo could be of help to your body;

Improving your Immune System
When you undergo the tattooing process, your immune system will get some improvement. The secret behind it is that your immune system will attack that ink when the tattoo ink enters your body. The immune improves when it sends antibodies to the part being tattooed, thereby helping the healing process. However, this may cause some swelling in some individuals in the tattoo’s surrounding area. Furthermore, when you get multiple tattoos, your immune system will undergo this practice numerous times, thus improving more every time.

Reduces Cortisol Levels in the body
Cortisol is an anxiety hormone. An increase in cortisol levels will lead to an increased stress level. Moreover, high cortisol levels are associated with stress detriments such as migraines, inhibited memory, and elevated blood pressure. When you go through the tattooing process, the levels of cortisol reduce. Hence, your stress levels will incredibly be decreased. Therefore, Tattoo Phuket can contribute to the prevention of such diseases indirectly.

Give you a good feeling.
Anything we like, we love to incorporate it into our life. Even if it is not in our reach, we get satisfaction by setting its image as a wallpaper on our phones or laptop. Similarly, tattoo performs the same role, though in a magnified way. As such, the tattoo will make you feel great since it expresses an integral part of your personality and life. Furthermore, your self-esteem and confidence will also improve due to the great feeling you get after a tattoo. Again, it is fun, and you want to show it off.

Increase Self-Confidence
Having low self-esteem is not something that you want to experience. People are strolling with loneliness because they do not have the courage to make new friends or interact with people. Although it could result from mental problems, you need to understand that there are some things that you can do to change that. For instance, many people have reported an increased confidence level after putting on tattoos. It is also important to note that putting on a tattoo can enhance one’s appearance and increase the much-needed self-confidence.

Conclusion
Having a tattoo can be a fascinating and exciting process. Most likely, you already understand that you have to be careful when selecting your tattoo artist. Ensure that they keep their tools clean and sanitary to avoid any infections. Nevertheless, tattoos have proven to benefit your body other than the aesthetic value, from fighting cortisol levels to boosting self-esteem and confidence. Besides, you will be sporting a fantastic piece of art for your lifetime with a good tattoo.


Tattoo
Top Benefits of Becoming a Graphic Designer
September 2, 2019
A graphic designer is tasked with designing contents for services and products. Most graphic design activities are related to advertising, print, magazines, brand identity, and website. The role of a graphic designer calls for understanding the needs and requirements of the client before taking up the task. These are some of the benefits of being a graphic designer.

Express Your Creativity
One of the benefits of being a professional graphic designer is the ability to express your creativity. Moreover, you will be earning a living. A lot of artists are shifting towards graphic design as it is easier to make a living than in areas like fine art. The good thing about being a graphic artist is that other than being rewarding, you can work in fine art and other fields. If you love both art and computers, then graphic designing is an ideal career for you.

Print Flexibility
When you are a graphic artist, you have various mediums like in fine art. The main ones are web and print. Obviously, the web is a bit recent and relatively new. If you pursue web design, then you should learn programming skills such as CSS, PHP, and HTML. Thus, when you are a graphic artist, you can get into other skill sets easily that can help increase your business or freelance growth potential.

Huge Client Base
As you know, some businesses have a limited client base. However, each business requires a graphic artist. If a business is doing marketing, then there is a need to design marketing materials. As long as a business keeps growing and a new one starts to appear, then as a graphic artist, you will have a lot of work to do. As a result of this, the competition keeps getting harder each day. Thus, you need to work harder to stand out of the competition.

Freelance Potential
The easiest part of graphic art profession is that you can easily work as a freelancer online. There are different websites you can get work online, and you can make a good amount of money from the comfort of your home.

Run Your Own Studio
If you have a dream of having your own office or studio, then you could turn your freelance business into a large operation and start running your own studio. That is a great option if you want to be a manager or director and expose your work to different brands as you make a lot of money.

Uncategorized
Recent Posts
How To Pick The Right Tattoo Artist Or Studio February 17, 2021
Why You Should Have A Tattoo On Your Body February 7, 2021
Top Benefits of Becoming a Graphic Designer September 2, 2019

Categories
Tattoo
Tattoo Studio
Uncategorized
We are here to serve!

CONTACT US!
Visit Us On FacebookVisit Us On PinterestVisit Us On YoutubeVisit Us On LinkedinCheck Our FeedVisit Us On Instagram
Home