Glitz draws people downtown
Joe Benedict editordgc@dailygate.com 9 hrs ago 
Facebook
Twitter
Email
1 of 3



Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Keokuk’s Main Street was alive on Friday night with plenty of shoppers and special guests for Christmastime as the 31st annual Puttin’ on the Glitz was held.

There were few parking spaces to be found in the Main Street Keokuk, Inc. district, which extends from second to 14th streets as businesses stayed open late, with many offering special treats for those who were taking part in the event.

This year everyone was “All Aboard the Express Train to Main,” with a Polar Express-like theme. The movie version of that story was projected onto the side of the Keokuk-Hamilton Dam Museum as Main Street had a hot chocolate station set up on Estes Park, though it was one of the warmer Glitz nights there has been in some time.

Main Street Keokuk, Inc. Executive Director Kira Kruszynski was at the hot chocolate station early in the event offering the drink to those passing by. She welcomed Santa Claus as he arrived and started walking the area to speak to children and hand out some goodies.

Kruszynski said the night was starting off well as it was getting underway, with plenty of people there early. This year, the event started at 3:30 p.m. and went until 9, giving everyone plenty of opportunity to enjoy the event.

Part of Puttin’ on the Glitz is a partnership with a non-profit. This year, as part of the train and railroad theme, it was the Keokuk Union Depot Foundation. There were prize boxes sold for $10 and, along with a couple of other items in the box, there was a number for the grand prize, a diamond pendant, worth almost $2,900.

The number was drawn on Friday at the close of the event. That number was 1123. Whoever has the number can contact Main Street through Facebook, or call them at 319-524-5056 to claim the prize.

For those who didn’t win, keep that prize number slip though. If the prize isn’t claimed by Friday, a new number will be drawn.

Many who were downtown also took advantage of some of the restaurants in the Main Street district. Dr. Getwells had a band planned, but the restaurant/bar had a wait for a table. Santa and the Grinch both strolled through the establishment at different points of the night.

Lucky’s Irish Pub and Grub also offered some free snacks, jello shots and other specials, celebrating the arrival of the Christmas season.

Back on the sidewalks along Main, Glitz attendees were also entertained with music from McNamara’s Band as well as Christmas carolers.