Unitypoint EMTs accept first week of Fill The Rig donations
TODAYS NEWS
DEC 6, 2021

NOAH ROHLFING
Staff Writer
nrohlfing@timesrepublican.com

 

T-R PHOTOS BY NOAH ROHLFING — From left to right, UnityPoint -- Marshalltown Ambulance Services EMTs Amanda Kamm, Tom Hard, Bobby Colin, Jadra Johnson and Tonya Lemire pose with the donations provided to the Fill The Rig charity drive by members of the Marshalltown community on Saturday afternoon at Theisen’s. Donations are taken in partnership with the Salvation Army.

A group of UnityPoint Health — Marshalltown Ambulance Services emergency medical technicians (EMTs) manned the stand for the yearly Fill the Rig charity event near the customer service desk in the Marshalltown Theisen’s on Saturday afternoon. Generous customers donated hundreds of toys, puzzles and clothes throughout the day.

Standing out, and stepping perfectly into the holiday season, was EMT Bobby Colin, one of the organizers for the event. Colin wore a red suit with gingerbread men, Christmas trees, elves and polar bears all over it, showing his holiday spirit in droves.

He considered the turnout for the first weekend of Fill the Rig, which benefits the local Salvation Army, to be positive. One area man who’s been known to make major donations even brought in two cart loads of toys.

“So far, we’ve gotten a lot of toys,” Colin said. “It’s been really receptive from everybody in the community, and we’re really appreciative of it.”

Making new signs and getting the word out were key tasks for Colin ahead of the event. This is his fourth year of involvement with Fill The Rig.


Marshalltown Ambulance Services EMTs Bobby Colin and Tom Hard load donated toys into an ambulance as part of the Fill The Rig charity drive Saturday afternoon in the Theisen’s parking lot. A second drive will be held on Saturday, Dec. 11, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

One gracious person, Colin said, collected toys and other items for children all year long before delivering them in a trunkful of bags, which filled over half of the back of one of the ambulances brought in for the event.

There were three backups available throughout the day, and donations ranged from dinosaur toys to electronic keyboards, from puzzles and Hungry Hungry Hippos to coloring books and Play-Doh activities.

The yearly event is important both for the EMTs who run it and for the families and children who benefit from it. Colin takes pride in keeping it going and spreading holiday cheer to those who are less fortunate.

“I really appreciate all the help from my co-workers and from the community coming out and supporting us on this,” Colin said. “It’s a way to give all the kids in the community a good Christmas. There are a lot of times where, if it wasn’t for the Salvation Army giving out all these toys, there are kids in our community that wouldn’t have a Christmas.”

Another Fill The Rig event will be held inside the Theisen’s at 602 Iowa Ave. West on Saturday, Dec. 11 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The EMTs hope that more donations can cap off another successful year for the charity drive.