Des Moines City Council to vote on approving Creative Visions to lead new violence prevention program
Melody Mercado
Des Moines Register








It's been almost a year since the process began to bring a third-party program to Des Moines to reduce violent crime.

The program, Cure Violence, is an internationally employed model and is expected to reduce homicides in Des Moines by 30% to 40% in its first year. On Monday, the Des Moines City Council plans to vote on whether to award the program's RFP to local nonprofit Creative Visions.

Creative Visions, a longstanding community nonprofit dedicated to fighting violence founded by state Rep. Ako Abdul-Samad, was the only applicant looking to support the program.

The criteria suggested for community organizations to implement the program included having strong ties to the community, being viewed as credible and trusted by high-risk individuals and being able to recruit and hire workers with criminal histories from the hotspots around town.

Related:Des Moines announces singular applicant — Creative Visions — to lead violence prevention program

"We have seen the work that Creative Visions has done the last 25 years and (Abdul-Samad's) great — he's built those relationships, he's done what he could with his resources, and this is an opportunity to put some city backing behind it and a national model with the extensive training that comes with that," said City Manager Scott Sanders.

The original contract was valued at $394,000, but an evaluation of additional expenses and supplies led city staff to reduce the initial one-year contract to $380,000.

A slide from the Cure Violence presentation to Des Moines City Council shows police data qualifying the city for its model to reduce violent crime.
Funding will support the hiring of five full-time employees, including several violence interrupters who would be embedded in the community. Their job would be to anticipate violence, mediate conflict and prevent retaliation.

Focus areas for the first year of the program would include areas in the Drake neighborhood and Evelyn K. Davis Park areas, according to city documents.

More:What's happening to curb growing gun violence injuries in Des Moines? Plenty — but more is needed, youth say

If approved at the council's meeting Monday night, Creative Visions would begin the hiring process immediately, with a goal of filling every position by the end of the year, Sanders said.

Cure Violence requires employees of participating programs to go through training, which would last through all of 2022 and cost the city an additional $65,000. But the program doesn't need to wait that long to get started — Sanders estimates the program would be active by the end of the first quarter.

