Skip to contentSkip to left sidebarSkip to right sidebarSkip to footer



Herald & Tribune - Jonesborough, TN
 MENU
Monday, December 6, 2021
Crockett cheerleaders heading to Hawaii
Home / News

By SERINA MARSHALL

Staff Writer

smarshall@heraldandtribune.com

 

On Saturday, four Crockett cheerleaders will get the opportunity to perform on an island.

Brooke Dinnes, Aly Ross, Libbie Woodley and J.D. Waldrop will travel to Hawaii to be a part of the 80th Annual Varsity Spirit Pearl Harbor Memorial Day Parade in Honolulu.

“At the Universal Cheerleaders Association (UCA) camp this past summer, the cheerleaders were given the opportunity to try out for All-American,” said David Crockett cheerleading coach Chelsey Yoakley. “They perform the material they learned at camp.”

After learning the routine at camp, the teams perfected their passes, cheers and movements to perform for the coveted spot as an All-American cheerleader.

“Once they perform, the staff then chooses the varsity UDA (Universal Dance Association) All-Americans with that scoring,” Yoakley explained. “Then that’s when they get their spot.”

UCA is the largest cheerleading camp company in the world. UCA trains more than 180,000 cheerleaders every summer at over 3,200 sessions across the country, offering the widest array of dates and locations of any camp company.

Along with becoming an All-American cheerleader comes the chance to travel and take part in various cheerleading trips.

“Last year, the junior varsity cheerleaders that were All-American went to Orlando and competed at Disney World,” Yoakley said. “The varsity got to attend the Lord Mayor’s parade in London, England one year. Due to COVID, they aren’t doing international trips this year, but they still get to go to Hawaii.”

The cheerleaders had a fundraiser to gather the funds needed for their Honolulu trip.

“There are only four cheerleaders from our school, but close to 1,000 from all over the nation,” Yoakley said. “It is a once in a lifetime experience for these kids.”

The group leaves for Hawaii on Saturday and the parade is on Tuesday.

“This is an experience they will never forget,” Yoakley said. “I am most excited about getting to see them perform as their coach. I got to experience this when I was a cheerleader; now I get to share the experience with them.”

In addition to the competition itself, the students will get the chance to tour Pearl Harbor and see the USS Arizona and USS Missouri, time on Waikiki Beach, the Polynesian Culture Center and a picnic dinner with other participants in the parade.

“These are such great kids,” Yoakley said. “They are all very excited and have been counting down the days since they found out they would be going.”

December 2, 2021 by heraldtribune-editor in Community News, Featured News, Uncategorized
Previous
Grinch pays downtown visit for the holidays
Next
Sexton chosen as interim sheriff for Washington County
HOME
THIS WEEK'S FRONT PAGE
GALLERIES
SPORTS
LOCAL NEWS
LIFESTYLES
COMMUNITY NEWS
EVENTS
OP ED
OBITUARIES
CLASSIFIEDS
CELEBRATIONS

SUBSCRIBE
ABOUT US

CONTACT US
HOMES FOR SALE


Tennessee Press Association

The Herald & Tribune was first established on August 26, 1869. Since then, it has served Jonesborough, TN and is published weekly on Wednesday.

Phone423-753-3136Circulationkkoester@heraldandtribune.comAdvertisingmpeek@heraldandtribune.com
The Herald & Tribune
702 W. Jackson Blvd.
Jonesborough, TN 37659

Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Statewide Public NoticesClassifieds Legal NoticesJohnson City and Kingsport Homes For Sale
© 2001-2021 Herald & Tribune. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Privacy Policy / Terms of Use

Herald & Tribune, 702 W. Jackson Blvd., Jonesborough, Tennessee 37659, 423-753-3136

Innovation by Six Rivers Digital

