.....Advertisement.....
.....Advertisement.....
Subscribe to the paper Contact us Submit news Place an AdMonday, December 6, 2021LOGIN TO YOUR ACCOUNT:

Not registered? Sign up
View Forecast
76°F
Humidity: 41%

Search LaFollettePress.com
 Search
EVENTS CALENDAR
 
April
  »
Upcoming Events
HOMENEWSSPORTSOPINIONOBITUARIESFEATURESSPECIAL SECTIONSCLASSIFIEDSPUBLIC NOTICES



Read a digital copy of the latest edition of the Lafollette Press online.

Farmer gets sworn in as interim mayor Tuesday
-AA+A
Bookmark and Share
By Eva Herinkova
Friday, December 3, 2021 at 2:32 pm
PopularRelated
Competitive video games teach real-world skills at Jellico High School
10 others plead guilty on Monday morning
Cougars lose two in Union County
Lady Cougars’ comeback bid falls short; Oneida pulls it out, 45-42
Evans arrested, charged with five counts of criminal impersonation
Lady Cougars pick up pair of victories over Gibbs, Union County
Blue Devils roll past Tigers despite big game from Pryor
Farmer gets sworn in as interim mayor Tuesday
more
Phillip Farmer will be sworn in as LaFollette’s interim mayor after next week’s council meeting on Tuesday, Dec. 7, City Administrator Stan Foust announced during the council’s workshop on Monday afternoon.

<div class="source">EVA HERINKOVÁ/Staff</div><div class="image-desc">LaFollette Vice Mayor Phillip Farmer will get sworn in as interim mayor on Tuesday.</div><div class="buy-pic"></div>
EVA HERINKOVÁ/Staff
LaFollette Vice Mayor Phillip Farmer will get sworn in as interim mayor on Tuesday.
Next week, the council will also need to consider appointments to fill Farmer’s vacant council seat once he becomes mayor. However, no possible candidates for appointment were discussed during the workshop.

After Farmer is sworn in as mayor, the council will need to decide upon a new vice-mayor and beer board chairman, Foust added, as well as someone to fill Farmer’s role on the E-911 commission because he will be moved to the planning commission instead. Councilmember Mark Hoskins recommended having the next vice-mayor automatically fill the E-911 position, which Foust said was a solution but that the council still needed to officially vote.

Council members also discussed all-terrain vehicles on city streets. According to Foust, Casey Boshears, the director of the public works department, has been working on stencils to better mark which roads allow ATVs. Without any weather delays, Foust said he believed the stencils would be finished by Wednesday.

However, the ATV agenda item prompted feedback from one LaFollette resident, who told the city council that she had issues with the level of noise from ATVs on Tennessee Avenue.

“They’re going up and down Tennessee at 9, 10, 11, 12 o’clock,” she said. “Does that need to be further enforced by the police?”

Police Chief Bill Roehl responded that ATVs are being treated like motor vehicles within the city, meaning that there are currently no time restrictions on when ATV users are able to ride on public streets. He added that the council could look into modifying the ordinance to set limitations, however.

Foust said he believed that the current ordinance already sets limitations, only allowing riders to drive ATVs on city streets 30 minutes before dawn and 30 minutes after dusk.

“Right now, it’s 6 o’clock, and it’s dark at 6 o’clock,” Foust said. “There shouldn’t be any on the street.”

City council members told the concerned resident that they would check the ordinance and implement a time restriction if one did not already exist.

“They ought to respect the ordinances that we have in this city,” said councilman Wayne Kitts. “If they don’t, maybe we need to deal with them individually.”

Hoskins agreed, saying that LaFollette was now “on the map” because of its proximity to Norris Lake and that rules and regulations would need to change accordingly.

“If they want to use that route, and we want to continue to let them, I think they should respect the citizens that live up and down that road,” Kitts added. “They don’t need to be making as much noise as they can just to show out. I don’t want to cut it out, but if they abuse it and don’t want to respect what we let them do, we may resort to that alternative.”

Ultimately, however, the police department would be responsible for enforcing time restrictions if a modified version of the ordinance is passed by the council.

Additionally, during the council meeting next week, members will vote on whether to accept a contract with Cannon and Cannon regarding a project on Cherry Street, as well as a railroad crossing safety improvement contract for Brantley Lane and Gibson Lane. Although it’s not included in the safety improvement contract, which only covers the cost of warning signals, council members also discussed the possibility of funding a concurrent road-widening project.

Foust also reminded council members that LaFollette’s annual Christmas Parade is on Saturday, Dec. 4 at 2 p.m. and the city’s employee Christmas dinner is on Wednesday, Dec. 15. 

CommentAdd new comment
Read and share your thoughts on this story

News
Crimes and Court
Sports
Opinion
Columns
Letters
Blog
Features
TV Listings
More Content
Obituaries
Calendar
Classified
Employment
Merchandise
Pets
Real Estate
Services
Vehicles
About Us
Subscribe
Home
Get the paper
Create/manage your profile
Refund Policy
Privacy policy, terms and conditions
About Us
Copyright © 2021
The LaFollette Press is your source for local news, sports, events, and information in Campbell County and LaFollette, TN, and the surrounding area.