Home
News
Sports
Living
Arts & Entertainment
Special Sections
Classifieds
Obituaries
The Job Network
Coronavirus News
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Possible shelter locations discussed by HWR committee	
Possible shelter locations discussed by HWR committee
Coffee County Health Welfare and Recreation Committee discus…

FEATURED TOP STORY
Commissioner pitches training facility for joint park
John Coffelt, Editor Dec 2, 2021 
HickersonStationVFD.JPG
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
At the November meeting of the county’s Health, Welfare and Recreation Committee, Commissioner Jimmy Hollandsworth floated an idea for a fire training facility at the largely vacant Joint Industrial Park. Hollandsworth suggested using federal funds from the American Recovery Plan for the project.

”(The volunteer fire departments) would really be interested in a facility where we could train them and then (the facility could) be leased out to other counties and other fire departments to give them training,” Hollandsworth said.

“That could be income for them.” he said. “They pay good money to the state to send firefighters to training.”

Hollandsworth noted that with additional training facilities, the rural fire departments could lower their ISO ratings from fives and sixes to fours, which would theoretically lower insurance costs for property owners in those districts.

Commissioner Margaret Cunningham, who is not a member of the HWR committee but was present and involved in the discussion, said that state advisers have told the county that ARP monies are only for areas impacted by the pandemic. She felt that the fire departments could possibly apply for the COVID money if a proposal was worded in a way that properly described the impact COVID has had on the departments.

One heavily impacted aspect of rural fire service has been with manpower. Hollandsworth reported that Hickerson Station is down to only 12 firefighters.

“They said they are really struggling to find help,” he said. ”It’s almost like hitting the panic button.”

Other areas of need include North Coffee Volunteer Fire Department's intent to acquire land for a new fire hall in the Beechgrove Area. 

Hollandsworth said that Hickerson Station VFD was mostly unable to aid other departments because of staffing problems.

He added that the rural fire department’s smoke alarm installations are going better than expected.

John has been with the Manchester Times since May 2011. John has won Tennessee Press Association awards for Best News Photo and placed in numerous other categories. John is a 1994 graduate of Tullahoma High School, a graduate of Motlow State Community College and earned a Bachelor of Arts in English from Middle Tennessee State University. He lives in Tullahoma, enjoys painting, dancing and exploring the outdoors.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
2 remaining of 3
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

Tags
Jimmy Hollandsworth Facility Fire Department Economics Social Services Commerce Agriculture Training Firefighter Vfd Money
John Coffelt
John Coffelt
Staff Writer

Download the free Manchester Times mobile app at the app store. John has won Tennessee Press Association awards for Best News Photo and placed in numerous other categories.

Author email
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

MOST POPULAR
 Articles
PBA, county, city hit with lawsuit over conference center wedding venue property
When The Call is for you
Be the Bush 'Burned' at planning commission mtg.
Law enforcement icon passes
Braseel exonerated in Lee's executive clemency
Possible shelter locations discussed by HWR committee
Commissioner pitches training facility for joint park
Work continues on 41, 55 intersection
Tullahoma Alderman files suit against Manchester officer and asst. AG for leaked video
Hillsboro to hold first-ever Country Christmas Parade
REGIONAL AREA EVENTS

FEATURED BUSINESSES
 
Find a local business
I'm looking for…
Preserving the US Postal Service

STOCKS

Market Data by TradingView
SECTIONS
News
Sports
Arts & Entertainment
Living
Local Events
Announcements
Obituaries
Multimedia
Reader Rewards
Online Features
SERVICES
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Business Directory
Promote Your Event
Email Alerts
Search
Weather

manchestertimes.com
300 North Spring Street
Manchester, TN 37355
Phone: 931-728-7577
Email: jcoffelt@manchestertimes.com
  
© Copyright 2021 Manchester TImes, 300 North Spring Street Manchester, TN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
