
Bookmark and Share
By Damon Lawrence
Saturday, December 4, 2021 at 12:00 pm (Updated: December 4, 12:00 pm)
PopularRelated
Former judge Thomas Austin passes away
More fallout from state investigation into county rescue squad
Rockwood marina and campground project approved
Rockwood airport becomes profitable
Midway Jolly Jamboree
Rockwood meets the Junior City Council
Arts in Motion donates food and money to Roane County Animal Shelter
Kingston Christmas Parade Thrills Young And Old
more
Fallout continues from the Tennessee Comptroller’s investigation into allegations of malfeasance in the Roane County Rescue Squad.

<div class="source">DAMON LAWRENCE/Roane Newspapers</div><div class="image-desc">The Roane County Commission’s Nonprofit Committee meets with members of the Roane County Rescue Squad on Tuesday.</div><div class="buy-pic"></div>
DAMON LAWRENCE/Roane Newspapers
The Roane County Commission’s Nonprofit Committee meets with members of the Roane County Rescue Squad on Tuesday.
Because of the findings in the report, the county government is considering withholding some of the squad’s annual donation until the squad’s board approves an internal control policy.

“The board is starting to meet and they’re trying to come up with some more refined ways of dealing with this money to make sure we don’t come into this situation again,” County Commissioner Ben Wilson said.

Wilson serves on the County Commission’s Nonprofit Committee, which met Tuesday at the courthouse. One of the things the committee discussed was the $39,000 donation that the county makes to the rescue squad.

“Roane County has supported the emergency service organizations, fire departments and rescue squad, a lot better than a lot of counties in this area,” Rescue Squad Treasurer Bill Harwell told the committee. “I just want to let you know, the money you have donated to the rescue squad is really needed and I for one appreciate it.”

Copies of the comptroller’s investigative report into the rescue squad was handed out during the meeting. The report said the purchase and resale of rescue squad vehicles was questionable. The report also noted the following internal control and compliance deficiencies: unauthorized loans were made to the rescue squad by the rescue squad captain, rescue squad surplus property was not disposed of properly, rescue squad members were allowed to use rescue squad equipment for personal use, the rescue squad did not deposit some funds within three days of collection and questionable purchases of food totaling $9,923.22 were made with rescue squad funds.

“Investigators were informed that members could ‘sign out’ equipment simply by asking permission from the rescue squad captain,” the report said.

“Investigators identified at least four loans/transfers from the captain’s personal bank account to the rescue squad’s bank account,” the report also said. “However, since there was no documentation maintained on these loans, we could not determine if there were additional loans or transfers.”

Rescue Squad Board Chairman Bobby Anderson said Rescue Squad Capt. Eddie Jones was suspended following the release of the report. Anderson also vowed that the board will get to the bottom of what happened.

The rescue squad is a 501(c)3 non-profit. The Nonprofit Committee voted to withhold $28,000 of the rescue squad’s donation until the board approves an internal control policy. The other $11,000 would be given to the rescue squad to help the organization pay the mortgage on its building.

“Rather than holding all of your funds, I’m trying to figure out a way to get you the $11,000 to keep you from getting behind on your mortgage,” County Commissioner Ron Berry told Harwell during the meeting.
