
Breaking News


Watts Bar Unit 1 Completes Scheduled Refueling, Maintenance Outage
Monday, December 6, 2021
The Tennessee Valley Authority’s Watts Bar Nuclear Plant Unit 1 returned to operation on Saturday, after completing a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage, and is again producing reliable, carbon-free energy.  At its full generating capacity, the unit creates enough energy to power 650,000 homes.

“Throughout the outage, our employees and contract partners maintained their commitment to the people of our region by safely working to position Unit 1 for its next 18-month cycle of reliable, carbon-free power generation,” said Tony Williams, Watts Bar site vice president. 

During the outage, the Watts Bar team completed more than 13,000 work activities, including replacing 95 of Unit 1’s 193 fuel assemblies; performing inspections of reactor components, steam generators and other plant systems; replacing or servicing plant equipment, and installing system enhancements to help the unit continue safe, reliable operation for years to come.

Maintaining COVID-19 safe work practices, TVA continues to take multiple and significant steps to help protect the health and well-being of employees and supplemental workers.


During 2021, scheduled outages have been safely completed at all three of TVA’s nuclear plants, as well as many of its other generating facilities.
Watts Bar Unit 1 is one of seven operational TVA nuclear reactors across the Valley. TVA’s nuclear fleet is the third largest in the nation, safely and reliably providing more than 40% of all electricity used by nearly 10 million people in the region. Combined with other parts of TVA’s diverse generation system, nuclear power is the major contributor to TVA carbon-free energy, which currently accounts for more than half of all power used by the region.

Tweet
Share2


December 6, 2021

Police Blotter: Man Thinks Ex-Girlfriend Slashed His Tires; Man At Chatt Inn Gets Upset When He Can't Choose His Room
December 6, 2021

PILOT For Steam Logistics Gets Approval Of City Industrial Development Board
December 6, 2021

Jonathan Conyers Representing Himself In February Trial On Southside Shooting That Left Victim In Critical Condition

A man on Vista Drive told police he noticed that the tires on his vehicle were cut/damaged that morning. He said that after reviewing video footage, he saw a female arrive in a black sedan. He ... (click for more)

A PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) tax break for Steam Logistics that will save it $502,000 in property taxes over a nine-year period was approved on Monday morning by the city Industrial Development ... (click for more)

Jonathan Conyers is representing himself in his upcoming trial set for Feb. 8 for attempted first-degree murder, aggravated assault, reckless endangerment and possession of a firearm in a shooting ... (click for more)


Breaking News
Police Blotter: Man Thinks Ex-Girlfriend Slashed His Tires; Man At Chatt Inn Gets Upset When He Can't Choose His Room
A man on Vista Drive told police he noticed that the tires on his vehicle were cut/damaged that morning. He said that after reviewing video footage, he saw a female arrive in a black sedan. He said he observed the woman around his vehicle and then she left in the black sedan. The video is not clear enough to identify the woman or the vehicle. The man said that he believes the woman ... (click for more)

PILOT For Steam Logistics Gets Approval Of City Industrial Development Board
A PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) tax break for Steam Logistics that will save it $502,000 in property taxes over a nine-year period was approved on Monday morning by the city Industrial Development Board. There were six members present on the nine-member board and chairman Jimmy Rodgers recused himself because he is friends with two company owners. The remaining five board ... (click for more)

Jonathan Conyers Representing Himself In February Trial On Southside Shooting That Left Victim In Critical Condition
Jamaal Mayes Sentenced To 48 Years In Prison For Murder Of Willie Bacon In 2017
Latest Bradley County Arrest Report
Former U.S. Senator David Perdue Launches Campaign For Georgia Governor Just After Stacey Abrams Announces
All Breaking News Articles
Opinion
The Plight Of The Homeless - And Response (3)
I work very closely with the homeless population in our Chattanooga area. My son and I take around 50 meals a week to our friends living in the tent cities. On Wednesday at 9 a.m. I witnessed first hand the Tennessee Department of Transportation destroying everything - my friends' homes and all of their possessions. My friends in the tent cities have always told me that TDOT ... (click for more)

Roy Exum: Albom On Oxford
I never got to know Mitch Albom back in my sports writer days. We covered some of the same events but other than an occasional “How ya doin’?” the only thing we had in common was he worked at the Detroit Free Press and I was at the Chattanooga News-Free Press. Then Mitch entered our hearts in 1967 with the wonderful book, “Tuesdays with Morrie,” and, man, he was off to the races. ... (click for more)

Senator Dole's Secret Kindness To My Dying Dad
Investing In Political Effective Results
Enjoying Aunt Rosie’s Chili At Zarzour’s
Roy Exum: 4,200+ Shot In Chicago
All Opinion Articles
Sports
UTC Men Rout Lipscomb 85-64
The Chattanooga Mocs men's basketball team survived a second-half swing in momentum and continued its winning ways on the road following an 85-64 rout over Lipscomb inside Allen Arena on Sunday evening in Nashville, Tennessee. Chattanooga has now won its last 10 non-conference road games dating back to 2019 and improves its season mark to 7-1 following the victory. Lipscomb ... (click for more)

Randy Smith: Vols Heading Back To Music City
The Tennessee Volunteers will be seeking their fifth straight bowl game win on December 30th as they take on Big Ten power Purdue in the Music City Bowl in Nashville. The Music City Bowl is nothing new to the Big Orange as the Vols will be making their third appearance in Nashville in their last six bowl contests. The Vols under Derek Dooley lost to North Carolina in 2010, 30-27, ... (click for more)

Vols To Meet Purdue In TransPerfect Music City Bowl On Dec. 30
Coach Dee Carter: The Long Run
Record 13 SEC Teams Headed For Bowls
No. 11/10 Lady Vols Stay Perfect With 64-58 Win Over Virginia Tech
All Sports Articles
