Login
NEWS
COVID-19 NEWS
E-Papers
E-Publications
OPINION
SPORTS
COMMUNITY
OBITUARIES
ADMARKET CLASSIFIED
EVENT CALENDAR
FUN STUFF
PUBLIC NOTICES
SUBSCRIBE
SHOP
CONTACT US
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Cumberland County High Beta Club staying busy	
Cumberland County High Beta Club staying busy
Cumberland County High School Beta Club recently inducted ne…

FEATURED
Coach Rick Timm says, ‘Birdie ball green dot’
22 hrs ago 
North-coach rick.jpg
North Cumberland Elementary School students appreciate Coach Rick Timm for taking the time to teach the students a little about golf and to give back to the community. 

Photo submitted

    
“Birdie Ball Green Dot.”

Such a catchy phrase with so much to offer students. And North Cumberland Elementary students recently learned about it when Coach Rick Timm visited.

Timm, a life member of the PGA, has been teaching junior golf to thousands of students for more than 35 years.

With several awards under his belt as a Junior Golf Development promoter, Cumberland County is very fortunate to have him in the community. He currently runs the US Kids Nashville/Knoxville/Chattanooga junior golf tours that serve kids ages 5-18.

He also is the PGA teaching professional out at Bear Trace Golf Course, as well as the assistant coach for the SMHS golf team. 

Timm says, “I started a new program sponsored by the LPGA called ‘Girls Golf of Crossville’ and ran consecutive clinics on Saturdays from May to October.” 

Cumberland County currently has one middle school golf team, but Timm has a vision to start a second. Coach Timm has already started his Golf-in-Schools program by providing golf skills to students in grades 3-8 at North Cumberland Elementary School. He is planning to expand to more schools as well. 

This program is very unique in that traditional golf balls are not used. He uses a “birdie ball” that is safe to use in gyms and gives the student the sensation of hitting a real golf ball. Timm gives his friend, John Breaker, the credit for inventing such a tool. 

So, where does the saying, “Birdie Ball Green Dot” come from? Along with the birdie ball, there is a mat that is safe for gym floors that have a green dot to place the birdie ball on to hit off of. 

Timm has this to say about his success, “The perfect program that I hope to develop here in Crossville is called PGA Junior League. I ran this super exciting and successful program in Colorado for over six years and it has been labeled the ‘fastest growing junior golf program’ in the country!”

North Cumberland Elementary thanks Coach Timm for taking the time to teach the students a little about golf and to give back to the community. The students are very appreciative. 

Tags
Rick Timm Ball Sport Golf Birdie Ball Green Dot Student Golf Ball Team Cumberland County North Cumberland Elementary Cumberland County Tn
TRENDING VIDEO

NEWSPAPER ADS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

OBITUARIES
BEAMISH, Thomas May 11, 1948 - Dec 2, 2021
Thomas (Tom) Beamish, 73, was born to Richard and Edith Beamish May 11, 1948, in Rochester, NY, and passed away at home Nov. 30, 2021. Tom served as a Marine in the Active Reserves. He was very proud of the Marines and being a part of them. Tom worked for Eastman Kodak for 33 years and retir…

DONNELLY, Edward Jul 18, 1931 - Nov 29, 2021
Edward A. Donnelly passed away Nov. 29, 2021, surrounded by the family he loved. He leaves behind his wife of 71 years, Sue Brandon Donnelly, and four children, Tony, Valerie, Gre, and Natalie. Nine grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren will greatly miss "G"-daddy. Edward served in the Ai…

HINCH, Robert May 3, 1948 - Dec 2, 2021
HINCH, Robert May 3, 1948 - Dec 2, 2021
PELFREY, Overt Feb 17, 1920 - Nov 27, 2021
PELFREY, Overt Feb 17, 1920 - Nov 27, 2021
DAY, Marjorie Aug 8, 1924 - Nov 27, 2021
DAY, Marjorie Aug 8, 1924 - Nov 27, 2021
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Michigan teen charged in Oxford High School shooting
Police: FedEx packages found in woods at second Alabama site
ER patient cited for assaulting another
COLUMN: Big weekend for Maddie and myself
AP News in Brief at 11:04 p.m. EST
Arnold appears on homicide case with new attorney
AP News in Brief at 11:04 p.m. EST
Kick off the holiday season with Friday at the Crossroads
Markets turn cautious, reversing an early gain to end lower
TN deer gun hunting season opening Nov. 20
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
crossville-chronicle.com
125 West Ave.
Crossville, TN 38555
Phone: (931) 484-5145
Email: reportnews@crossville-chronicle.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Photos
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 Crossville Chronicle, 125 West Ave. Crossville, TN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.