
Remember the brothers who ran that Brentwood shoe repair? Yeah, now they're YouTube stars
Trenton and Heath Potter restored a super beat-up pair of super expensive shoes to make their first viral video — and that led to an extra $500,000 a year in new business
Brad Schmitt
Nashville Tennessean







Business really exploded when a dude brought them a pair of really ratty John Lobb shoes.

They were jarring because John Lobb is the Rolex for guys' footwear. A 150-year-old high-end British shoemaker that cranks out handcrafted $1,500 loafers. The brand Prince Harry wears on his royal feet.

The pair brought into Brentwood repair shop Potter & Sons, though, "looked like they'd been buried for three years," Heath Potter said, laughing.

But they looked beautiful to Heath and Trenton Potter.

The brothers launched their YouTube channel a year earlier, and they knew a great transformation video could go viral. So the brothers gave the customer $300 of repairs for only $100.

Popular YouTube hosts Heath Potter, left, and Trent Potter, right, stand in the workshop of their high-end shoe repair business Potter & Sons located in The Factory at Columbia in Columbia, Tenn., on Friday, Oct. 29, 2021.
Best discount they ever gave. 

The video, posted in 2020, got a million views in 10 days. That's about 994,000 more views than most of the other videos they'd posted previously.

In a month, the John Lobb video generated 20,000 more subscribers for their YouTube channel and a $4,000 check from YouTube's parent company.

"It was crazy!" Trenton Potter said. "We thought we were just trying to help generate a little business, but now, of a sudden, it's like, oh my gosh."

The brothers since have transformed a boutique family business into an international boutique company that generates nearly $1 million in gross receipts a year.

Their YouTube channel now has 308,000 subscribers, and their videos — with restorations and their recommendations on everything shoe — each generate between 30,000 to 2.2 million views.

While they spend most of their time with high-end repairs, the Potter brothers' folksy demeanor, Southern drawls, good looks and down-to-Earth advice have attracted a worldwide audience.

The brothers got more than one million views for a video where they upgraded a $28 pair of Walmart shoes.

But after 120 videos, Trenton and Heath Potter have figured out the secret to YouTube success.

"The shoe has to look awful and you have to make it look nice," Trenton Potter said. "Now we reach out and ask, 'Who’s got some really trashy shoes?'"

It's an interesting career twist for a one-time Antioch High School history teacher (Heath) and a former insurance company executive (Trenton).

Viral moment:Nashville singer goes viral with Hans Zimmer Dune mash-up

Preds jerseys with a Dolly flair:Twitter artist designs Nashville Predators jerseys for hypothetical 'Dolly Parton Night'

'Don't keep wasting money'
Heath and Trenton Potter are military brats, the son of retired Air Force officer Norm Potter, a born salesman who now works for his sons.

The brothers lived in nine places, including Germany, before landing in Middle Tennessee. 

Trenton Potter launched his insurance career after studying business at Tennessee Tech.

Heath Potter always had an interest and a knack for making clothes. He studied theater at University of Tennessee in Knoxville and often made costumes for student productions. He went into teaching history, economics and government after graduation.

In 2011, Heath Potter saw a YouTube video of a guy making shoes and thought to himself, I can do that.

He spent a few hundred bucks for materials and tools, and Heath Potter suddenly had a new obsession. He'd grade students' papers after school, have dinner with his artist wife, Autumn Potter, and be in the shoe shop until midnight.

He could knock out three to four pair a week, giving most of them to family.

"One day, my wife said, 'Don't keep wasting money on supplies if you're not going to use them," Heath Potter said.

Meanwhile, his brother started getting sick of working for big companies and decided he wanted to be his own boss.

The two started a side shoe shine business with pick up and delivery service for wealthy execs in and around Williamson County.

A customer asked Trenton Potter if he could repair shoes, and he thought, bet my brother could.

By 2014, the brothers and their parents bought Brentwood Shoes and Luggage, dropped the luggage part and started fixing and polishing shoes. Heath Potter quit his teaching job at the end of the school year.

Trenton Heath quit his insurance job a few months later, and the two generated about $100,000 in revenue that first year, barely enough to support their families.

In 2015, the brothers added a line of handmade sandals, which, at times, doubled their revenues.

Watching YouTube videos at work
By 2018, though, the brothers couldn't afford to both keep working at the shoe shop. So Trenton got a temp job at SESAC music licensing company. He spent most of his days watching YouTube videos on high-end men's clothes and shoes, becoming a big fan of influencer Kirby Allison.

That's when Trenton Potter thought — We can do that.

The brothers went to a conference for YouTubers, met several men-fluencers, bought a camera and launched their own channel in February 2019. The John Lobb shoes video went up about a year later, and Heath and Trenton Potter have been repairing high-end shoes from around the world — and collecting about $5,000 a month from YouTube — since. 

The guys also started selling men's sandals as well, and they shut down the Brentwood shop to open a big space in The Factory at Columbia for their shoe repair, shoe making and warehouse.

Fan emails come every day and some fans send letters and gifts.

Subscribers and video views continue to climb.

"It's the feeling inside," Trent Potter said, "it kind of blows you away."

Reach Brad Schmitt at brad@tennessean.com or 615-259-8384 or on Twitter @bradschmitt.



