
MTSU Mondays: Child care, historical exhibit and award-winning programs and people
Nancy DeGennaro
Murfreesboro Daily News Journal






For over 40 years, Middle Tennessee State University has offered a child care program for low-income parents.

On Dec. 9, the Child Care Lab at Womack Lane Apartments will close for good. But a new program is taking its place.

Low-income Middle Tennessee State University students needing help with child care costs can apply for about 40 grants of around $1,000 each semester beginning Fall 2022.

More:Oaklands Mansion and MTSU search for evidence of the enslaved in Murfreesboro

“COVID-19 has taught us that not every parent needs or wants on-campus child care,” said Sarah Sudak, associate vice president and dean of students. “Many parents would prefer child care that is closer to their home, as they work from home or take online classes.”

The program will allow MTSU to expand greatly the number of students seeking assistance.

The Child Care Lab, which opened in August 1981, served about 24 children, ages 3 to 5, daily each semester prior to COVID-19. Due to the pandemic, the number was restricted to 13 children daily.

Families using the Child Care Lab this semester will be eligible for grants starting in January.

Rutherford County exhibit
With help from MTSU’s Center for Historic Preservation, Rutherford County has a place to preserve its past for future generations.

Area leaders cut the ribbon recently on the new Rutherford County Historic Courthouse Museum, a five-room space inside the courthouse in Murfreesboro for artifacts and exhibits that explain the county’s development.

Events highlighted in local history included the Trail of Tears, the Civil War, the Commonwealth Fund and the medical history of the early 20th century, and Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s visit and address at Middle Tennessee State College in 1951.

For more information, contact Lydia Simpson at lydia.simpson@mtsu.edu or Antoinette van Zelm at antoinette.vanzelm@mtsu.edu.

MTSU ranks in top third for online programs
MTSU has been named to Newsweek’s list of America’s Top Online Colleges 2022. MTSU placed 40th among the 150 higher-ed institutions highlighted and is the only Tennessee university to make the list.

The recognition is presented by Newsweek and Statista Inc., the world-leading statistics portal and industry ranking provider, and highlights the nation’s top colleges with online degrees.

Ranking is based on an online survey from over 9,000 respondents that participated in online college degree programs or general online learning courses.

Ratings were based on organization and accessibility, support and service, cost, perceived organizational reputation, expected success and practical relevance of contents. 

MTSU Daniels Center wins Patriot Award
Daniels’ Journey Home Project presents Patriot Award to MTSU’s Daniels Center 

MTSU’s Charlie and Hazel Daniels Veterans and Military Family Center recently received the Patriot Award from The Charlie Daniels Journey Home Project.

The 2021 Patriot Award honors a person or group that care, support and encourage the men, women and families who have served the nation.

Criteria for the award is based on the mission of the organization: to support veterans in their return, rehabilitation and reintegration back into civilian life.

MTSU adviser wins Woman of Achievement Award
Women in Higher Education in Tennessee has bestowed its Woman of Achievement Award on Alicia Abney, the second consecutive MTSU employee to receive this recognition. Judith Iriarte-Gross, an MTSU chemistry professor, won the honor in 2020.

The group’s website, whettn.org, describes a woman of achievement as “a dedicated leader who has earned admiration and respect; has a clear vision that inspires others; mentors and serves as a role model for other women; faces challenges with grace and courage; (and) lives with dignity, integrity and honor.”

Reach reporter Nancy DeGennaro at degennaro@dnj.com. Keep up with restaurant news by joining Good Eats in the 'Boro (and beyond) on Facebook and follow Murfreesboro Eats on TikTok.

