Funeral arrangements set, porch lights to go red for Sterling’s Lt. Ramos Flags also to be flown at half-staff By Kathleen A. Schultz December 05, 2021 at 10:03 pm CST Expand A memorial is created outside of the Sterling Fire Department to honor Lt. Garrett Ramos, who was killed in the line of duty early Saturday morning fighting a fire in rural Rock Falls. Funeral arrangements have been set for Ramos, and residents to show their support for his grieving family and colleagues by replacing their porch lights with red lights. (Katrina Milton) STERLING – Funeral arrangements were announced Sunday night for Sterling Fire Department Lt. Garrett Ramos, killed early Saturday while fighting a fire in a rural Rock Falls home. Visitation will be from 5 to 8 p.m. Wednesday at the Sterling High School Fieldhouse, 22 E Miller Road. Uniformed personnel are asked to be at the field house at 5:30 p.m. to participate in a uniformed walk-through to honor Ramos. Funeral services will be held at 10 a.m. Thursday at Westwood Sports Complex, 1900 Westwood Drive, off LeFevre Road. A memorial ceremony will be held at the Sterling Fire Main station, 110 W. Fifth St. downtown. Staging of equipment begins at 8:30 a.m. Thursday at Westwood. RSVP equipment and funeral attendance t0 Dave Northcutt at the department, 815-632-6680. Also posted on the city of Sterling’s Facebook page Sunday: “As we all mourn the loss of Lt. Ramos, we are asking the community to show support by replacing your porch light with a red light. “The Fire Department has a limited supply of lights at the main station, you may stop and get one there. “You may also be able to pick them up at Menards, Walmart or Grummert’s. “The outpouring of love and many prayers for the Ramos family and the SFD family has been amazing and very much appreciated. We thank you from the bottom of our hearts.” #sterlingstrong Mayor Skip Lee ordered all flags in Sterling to be lowered to half staff until dusk on Thursday. Ramos, 38, died Saturday morning after the floor beneath him collapsed while he was fighting a fire that broke out shortly before midnight Friday in rural Rock Falls. Ramos was with the Sterling fire department since 2012, where he was a warm and much-respected leader. He leaves behind his wife and two children. His is the first death in the line of duty his department ever has had to endure.