UCPD needs less power, not more Dec 3, 2021 Updated 2 hrs ago  0 Facebook Twitter Email Facebook Twitter Email Print Save To the Editor:  We are residents of Hyde Park, Bronzeville, Kenwood, Washington Park, and Woodlawn who are alarmed by the new “safety” measures proposed by the University of Chicago in a recent webinar.   We are deeply saddened by the recent killing of student Shaoxiong “Dennis” Zheng in an armed robbery. We do not believe that increased UCPD presence would have kept him safe, or that it will increase safety for neighborhood residents. The safest communities are those with the most resources, not those with the most police. We are particularly alarmed by the proposal to increase traffic stops by the UCPD in our community; the UCPD has long faced credible accusations of racial profiling in their traffic stops, which are backed up strongly by field interview data released by the department. However, because the UCPD is a private police force, they are not subject to FOIA or other accountability measures, so exact data remains unavailable. We are scared for the consequences of this plan to our neighbors of color.  Unfortunately, the University has a history of ignoring community concerns about problems with UCPD. After the UCPD shot a student experiencing a mental health crisis in 2018, many U. of C. students and community members called for accountability; but the University took no action and refused to meet with concerned students. When student groups held a sit-in in 2020 calling for a public meeting with the University to discuss potential changes to UCPD budget or policies, they were rebuffed. At no time has the University indicated that it is a good faith partner with either the student body or the rest of the community with regard to strategies for public safety and accountability. Far from needing expansion, this private police force already has far too broad a remit. The physical jurisdiction of UCPD is bloated, extending as far north as 37th Street, an area certainly not known for UChicago student activity. Many of us have observed UCPD engaging in policing well away from university property regarding incidents that have no university-affiliated participants. The UCPD can often feel like an occupying force to neighborhood residents; this only increases the senses of hostility and division that can be precursors to violence.  While the University of Chicago will always be an important influence on Hyde Park and other adjacent neighborhoods, their 14,000 students are just a fraction of the 65,000 residents of our community who are unwillingly placed under the UCPD's jurisdiction. In addition to being within the jurisdiction of CPD, along with all other city residents, we and our neighbors are additionally policed by people granted full policing powers and armed with deadly force, but without the accountability, requirements, or training of citywide police. This is fundamentally unacceptable, and expanding the power of this force will reduce, not increase, public safety in our community. Some of us are UChicago alumni who chose to stay in or return to Hyde Park, and some of us have bought homes here. But we don’t want to live in a community that is paternalistically dominated by an institution that, in pursuit of its narrowly defined ideal of safety, only exacerbates the inequities that lie at the root of violence. We urge the University to change course on these dangerous security theater practices.