Keep creating, Indy! By STAFF December 2, 2021   0  Share “We the People” by D. Powell-Smith/#GeorgettesGranddaughter, 2021. (Photo provided) STAFF More by this author Book launch December 6, 2021   A CHRISTMAS CAROL December 2, 2021   Keep creating, Indy! December 2, 2021   Diabetes panel discusses risk factors, management December 2, 2021 #IndyKeepsCreatingSeries, which celebrates Indianapolis culture through music, art installations and cultural programs, features events through March 2022. A $500,000 allocation from the American Rescue Plan Act and unanimously approved by the city-county council supports the series. The series is designed to engage creatives with paid opportunities to support the arts and reconnect residents and visitors with places and experiences missed during the pandemic. 1 of 3   “Bantu Tiffany” by Faith Blackwell, 2021. (Photo provided) “Wild Flowers” by Regina Bunting, 2021. (Photo provided) “We the People” by D. Powell-Smith/#GeorgettesGranddaughter, 2021. (Photo provided)     Almost $220,000 has been awarded to 240 artists for paid opportunities in 16 neighborhoods, and 56% of all grants and paid engagements were awarded to artists of color. Marion County-based visual and performing artists, community organizations and neighborhood businesses applied to participate in three programs administered by the Arts Council of Indianapolis, Big Car Collaborative and GANGGANG. The programs include: #IndyKeepsCreating Cultural Connection Grants — Grants supporting community-centric cultural programs, festivals and events. Administered by Big Car Collaborative. #IndyKeepsCreating Music Series and Naptown Next Up Fellowship Program —Artists performing live at signature downtown locations, in neighborhoods and other public spaces. Curated by Smart Girl Creative Co., The Naptown Next Up Fellowship program is a professional development program for rising Marion County performing artists. Ten fellows will be announced in mid-December. Administered by GANGGANG. #IndyKeepsCreating Sidewalk Galleries — About 100 visual and literary and poetry artworks, mostly located outdoors, will create welcoming spaces throughout Marion County. Curated by the Arts Council of Indianapolis. #IndyKeepsCreating Series events and programs are open to the public, free or affordable, and located in Marion County. New events are added weekly. Visit indykeepscreating.org for the most up-to-date information. Below are events happening in December and beyond: Post-game buskers on Georgia Street — Hosted by the Indianapolis Cultural Trail following Colts games on Jan. 2 and Jan. 16 or 17 (playoff date TBD) Sidewalk Galleries — 23 storefront murals from local artists, displayed at Circle Centre Mall. Classical Music Indy’s CMI City Sounds — Free, site-specific music video performances at iconic Indy locations. Date TBA in December — Le Alta Moda, free, El Volkan Mexican Restaurant, 2705 W. Washington St. La Sardina Gallery presents “A Night of Le Alta Moda 3!” Art fashion designer Katy Newton, a featured artist at Midwest Fashion Week and Rucker Makerspace, will create unique pieces of wearable art using repurposed and recycled materials. Models included are those who are often excluded from the world of high fashion such as mothers, LGBTQ artists, drag performers, people of all ages and cultural backgrounds. Dec. 3 — ArtMix Winter Open House, free, 10 a.m.-6 p.m., ArtMix, 1505 N. Delaware St. Participate in hands-on art projects, listen to music, and view the new works in the ArtMix gallery. The gallery also will be stocked with affordable holiday gifts and take-home treats. Free masks will be provided at the door as masks are required. Event entry is staggered throughout the day to allow for social distancing. Registration and more information on eventbrite.com. Dec. 8 — Jingle & Mingle, free, noon-6 p.m., Indianapolis City Market, 222 E. Market St. Dec. 11 — Holiday Arts Market on Monument Circle, free, noon-6 p.m., featuring DJ Gabby Love, Anneliese and Ali Dec. 11 and beyond — Storefront murals on Shining a Light, Monument Circle Dec. 18 — Flurries on the Canal: A Performance Series by the Indianapolis Cultural Trail, free, downtown Central Canal, Admiral Spruance Basin Dec. 19 — Girls Rock! Indianapolis Holiday Showcase, free, The AMP at 16 Tech Dec. 27 — Frozen Frequencies, free, time TBD, Garfield Park Rob Funkhouser and Landon Caldwell created Frozen Frequencies, two semi-permanent augmented reality soundtracks, for walking around Garfield Park. Dec. 29 — Snuggy Bear Presents … Community Art Music and Education Day, free, 10 a.m.-8 p.m., Garfield Park Arts Center, 2432 Conservatory Drive This event will highlight some of the most renowned Black visual and performing artists during the week of Kwanzaa. During the first half of the day, artists will interact with and provide educational activities. The artists’ work will be available for purchase. Purchases will be commission free. The second half will transition into a performing arts space where some of Indianapolis’ most recognizable performers will entertain the audience.  End of December: Norwood Notes: Portrait Project, free, online platform TBD Artist Kaila Austin will work in the Norwood neighborhood to record the oral histories with five elders in the community and complete their portraits to be passed down as family heirlooms. The oral histories will be available in a community archive.