Marijuana dispensary along Ford Road in Westland gets OK from planning commission David Veselenak Hometownlife.com A rendering of the proposed Common Citizen marijuana dispensary, which is planned for a piece of property along Ford Road west of Newburgh in Westland. Plans to construct a new marijuana dispensary along Ford Road in Westland took another step forward. The city's planning commission reviewed and recommended approval to the city council for the development of a marijuana retail establishment at 37655 Ford Road during its meeting Dec. 1 at Westland City Hall. Common Citizen, a Marshall-based company with retail locations in Flint, Battle Creek, Hazel Park and a medical marijuana location in Detroit, plans to occupy the facility. Other locations planned for the company include spots in Lansing and Pontiac, according to its website. "We've got a couple of other irons in the fire but we're really excited about coming here," said Mike Beck, the company's director of community and government affairs.  Common Citizen wants to use the site, located between Newburgh and Hix, as a retail establishment to sell marijuana. After looking at the facility's renderings, Commissioner David Rappaport said what's proposed on the Ford Road site is a vast improvement over another area dispensary, Michigan's Finest, which opened last year in Wayne. "The facility that is proposed is very nice," he said. "I think that a move like this and a facility like this ... I believe this goes a long way to mitigating some of the demonizing rhetoric that's gone around with marijuana use." The site plan and special land use was recommended unanimously for approval by the planning commission. It now goes to the city council for its review and final determination. Marijuana licenses challenged in court The proposal, which came months after the commission first heard and recommended approval of a lot split at the property this past summer, comes as litigation over the city's selection process of which companies to grant marijuana licenses continue to work through the legal system. Several lawsuits were filed in March by companies not selected by the city to move forward with the application process. Those cases, originally filed in Wayne County Circuit Court, have worked their way through that court and into the Michigan Court of Appeals.  That was something attorney Tim Diemer, who represents one of those rejected companies, reminded the commissioners during the public hearing portion during its meeting to discuss the proposal. More:Wayne-Westland superintendent: District's new security firm has great reputation with kids More:Westland council approves two subdivisions on former school sites More:Plant-based food business opens its doors in Westland Diemer said with the case appealed to a higher court, it's possible another injunction could be issued that would halt any further movement on the development, though there was no such injunction currently in place at the time of the meeting. "We're going to be back in front of the judge addressing the scoring rubric and be back to square one, going through all the stuff all over again," he said with his prediction the earlier court ruling will be overturned. "These renderings are lovely ... but I heard demolition was being planned and other steps, and I'm here to try and put the brakes on things." Diemer said he's filed a motion to reimpose the injunction with the state Court of Appeals and said he believes a decision could come on that motion by the end of the month. Rappaport said given that there was no status quo order currently in place, not moving forward with a petition for site plan and special land use could cause harm to the applicant who has the legal right to move forward with the planning process. "One of the issues we have to wrestle with up here as a representative of both the citizenry and making our recommendation to the city council and to the city as functions is we not only have to consider fairness to you and potentially your clients, but we also have to the fairness to the petitioner that's before us," he said. "If we were to be awfully kind and generous to delay our proceedings for you and your clients and you arguably have the potential not to be successful in your appeals, we would have unnecessarily delayed the process for the petitioner in front of us currently. "We are currently under no obligation not to move forward." Contact reporter David Veselenak at dveselenak@hometownlife.com or 734-678-6728. Follow him on Twitter @davidveselenak.