Blue Cross offers free COVID-19 vaccine, flu shot at Wayne, Detroit, Ann Arbor McDonald's Shelby Tankersley Hometownlife.com The Wayne McDonald’s held a carnival-themed grand opening when it opened in 2014. The restaurant is offering COVID-19 vaccines Tuesday. Haven't had time to get the COVID-19 vaccine? Well, now you can get it with your morning coffee and Egg McMuffin.  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, Blue Cross Complete of Michigan and Wayne Health have partnered with three McDonalds locations in metro Detroit to offer free COVID-19 vaccinations, COVID-19 booster shots and flu shots as well as blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and kidney function screenings.  Wayne's 35111 West Michigan Avenue location is one of the three participating franchises.  The popup clinic will be open 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 7. Anyone ages 5 or older is eligible, and no prior registration is required. All vaccinations will take place in the parking lot next to the drive-thru lane. Franchise owners Joni Thrower and Monique Vann-Brown, in addition to hosting the clinics, decided to offer "Be Our Guest" cards to vaccine recipients redeemable for one from McCafé beverage. McCafé drinks include McDonald's coffee, smoothie and hot chocolate offerings.  According to a press release, the clinics are meant to make vaccine and healthcare accessible for the community. Blue Cross, Blue Cross Complete and Wayne Health are encouraging unvaccinated community members to stop by.  Two other popup clinics will be offered in metro Detroit as well: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday, Dec. 13, at McDonald’s, 14204 W. Seven Mile, Detroit. 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 15, at McDonald’s, 2675 Plymouth, Ann Arbor. More:Wayne-Westland superintendent: District's new security firm has great reputation with kids More:Farmington's 'Flyin' Brian' Rice hopes to be first Black American snowboarder at Olympics Contact reporter Shelby Tankersley at stankersle@hometownlife.com or 248-305-0448. Follow her on Twitter @shelby_tankk. 