Center for Oral Surgery in Southgate to give $5,000 each to 6 needy Downriver families Dr. Dexter Flemming, who was born and raised in the Caribbean island of Trinidad, has increased donations that the Michigan Center for Oral Surgery is making to Downriver families in need this holiday season. (Photo courtesy of Michigan Center for Oral Surgery) Dr. Dexter Flemming, who was born and raised in the Caribbean island of Trinidad, has increased donations that the Michigan Center for Oral Surgery is making to Downriver families in need this holiday season. (Photo courtesy of Michigan Center for Oral Surgery) By JIM KASUBA | jkasuba@medianewsgroup.com | News-Herald PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 3:25 p.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 3:26 p.m. Christmas is the season for giving and one local doctor has really taken that spirit to heart. Dr. Dexter Flemming and his team at Michigan Center for Oral Surgery in Southgate are accepting nominations for six Downriver families in need. Each family will be gifted $5,000. RELATED ARTICLES Comic book artist set to release ‘Made in Lincoln Park’ original artwork Allen Park resident seeking stem cell transplant to cure multiple sclerosis Man harasses Southgate McDonald’s restaurant by calling 50 times a day Real estate in one Downriver city stands out for netting top dollar, selling the fastest Michigan: 18,443 new COVID-19 cases, 277 more virus deaths over past two days A doctor who serves as a spokeswoman for this year’s Giving Campaign said that under Flemming’s leadership the Michigan Center for Oral Surgery, 14600 Pennsylvania Road, has been donating to families in need for several years. However, the program was never formalized until recently. “This is our second year formally,” she said. “Last year we gave $5,000 to three families in need, total $15,000. We increased it to six this year. The need is so great.” As the year winds down, the center is set to donate $90,000 to families in need for 2021. “We are proud of this!,” the spokeswoman said. “We really are. We are just getting started, as well.” Part of Michigan Center for Oral Surgery’s mission is to “do good” and to leave a small bit of “heaven on earth” to folks who find themselves in dire straits. According to the center, Flemming comes from humble beginnings, knowing what it’s like when life gives you lemons  — good people who do good, but end up unemployed, sick and food insecure. Email nominations to community@mymcos.com with your name, phone number and email address. Provide the nominee’s name, city or township where the family resides, number of family members and what hardships the nominee is experiencing leading to need for financial assistance (such as loss of employment or health insurance, medical limitations, housing insecurity, etc.). The nominee should provide adequate supporting documents that will allow the team to vet nominees and circumstances. The office states that it respects the nominees’ privacy. All nominations must be submitted before Dec. 10. “We have counted on good faith nominations from our referral doctors offices and patients,” the spokeswoman said. “We prefer nominations, as we prefer an outside witness to another person’s situation. There are a lot of scammers out there.” The Giving Campaign emphasizes that this is private. It does not publicize via social media who is nominated or who wins. The nominating person plays a big role in helping to keep it a surprise to the winners. “When we select folks, we let the nominator coordinate gift exchanges,” the spokeswoman said. “We tell them when the people should show up to the office. That’s the real joy  — to surprise people and tell them about the gift.”