Poison control center releases public health alert regarding fentanyl-laced marijuana The Michigan Poison & Drug Information Center at the Wayne State University School of Medicine is alerting those who use marijuana products to a potential emerging public health threat. Macomb Daily wire photo The Michigan Poison & Drug Information Center at the Wayne State University School of Medicine is alerting those who use marijuana products to a potential emerging public health threat. Macomb Daily wire photo By GINA JOSEPH | gjoseph@medianewsgroup.com | The Morning Sun PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 4:05 p.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 4:05 p.m. Emergency rooms have reported treating several patients for opioid exposure and overdose after patients claimed to have only smoked marijuana, according to a news release from the Michigan Poison and Drug Information Center (MPDIC). The cases happened outside of Michigan but the MPDIC at the Wayne State University School of Medicine is alerting those who use marijuana products to the potential emerging public health threat. In Connecticut, a sample of one of the marijuana products found at an overdose scene was seized by local law enforcement and tested at a state laboratory, testing positive for fentanyl. RELATED ARTICLES December 6, 2021Family identifies toddler killed in crash December 6, 2021Montcalm boy, 11, killed on bicycle December 6, 2021Michigan: 16,590 new COVID-19 cases, 127 more virus deaths over past three days December 6, 2021Carl Rummer set to retire after 48 years in the local car business December 6, 2021Mid Michigan College provides welding space for GI-TEC students to learn The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services said there have not yet been any laboratory-confirmed cases of marijuana laced with fentanyl in the state. However, since June 1, eight suspected cases of fentanyl laced marijuana in Michigan have been identified in a review of probable opioid overdose Emergency Medical Services responses, although there have been no reported deaths among the suspected cases. The MPDIC is advising anyone who purchases marijuana products, only to do so from licensed and reputable sources and vendors. Marijuana users should be cautious when sourcing products and be aware of symptoms related to opioid use/abuse and the signs of opioid overdose, including: Confusion Drowsiness Dizziness Headache Anxiety Vomiting Pinpoint pupils Respiratory depression (slowed breathing) Respiratory arrest Low blood pressure and low heart rate Shock Anyone who has used marijuana and develops symptoms that may be related to a fentanyl or other opioid exposure should call 911 immediately. Marijuana products should always be stored out of sight and reach of children. Unintentional and intentional use and misuse of fentanyl can be fatal. Training for the use of the reversal agent for opioid overdoses, naloxone is also encouraged by the MPDIC. Visit the michigan.gov/Opioids for programs and resources near you. For more information or questions, call 1-800-222-1222 to speak to certified poison specialists and board certified toxicologists of the Michigan Poison and Drug Information Center or visit https://www.poison.med.wayne.edu/call-center