Allen Park resident seeking stem cell transplant to cure multiple sclerosis Fundraising is only hope to pay for procedure Sharon Karolski-Schultz (left), and her husband, Tim Schultz, of Allen Park, hope to raise money for a stem cell transplant that is not covered by medical insurance to rid Sharon of multiple sclerosis. (Photo courtesy of Sharon Karolski-Schultz) Sharon Karolski-Schultz (left), and her husband, Tim Schultz, of Allen Park, hope to raise money for a stem cell transplant that is not covered by medical insurance to rid Sharon of multiple sclerosis. (Photo courtesy of Sharon Karolski-Schultz) By SUE SUCHYTA | | PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 4:37 p.m. For Sharon Karolski-Schultz, a former lifesaving paramedic, it is ironic that her own life depends on her ability to raise funds for a stem cell transplant to defeat her multiple sclerosis. Karolski-Schultz, 44, a 22-year resident of Allen Park, who grew up in Dearborn, is a cancer survivor, and had a career as an emergency medical service paramedic, and as a trauma paramedic at Oakwood Hospital before 2016, when MS robbed her of her ability to help others. Currently, her MS symptoms are being treated by medication, which only slows the disease’s progression. “I have exhausted all options as far as medications go,” Karolski-Schultz said. “There is nothing else for me. My only hope is a stem cell transplant – my own, not fetal tissue.” She said the procedure is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which means insurance will not cover its cost. A clinic in Colorado performs the stem cell transplant for a cost beginning at $125,000 to $150,000, while a reputable clinic in Monterrey, Mexico, Clinica Ruiz, which offers the procedure for $65,000, has experienced a strong success rate. “I have raised $10,000 through GoFundMe, but that’s not enough,” Karolski-Schultz said. “My fate without help is to be in a wheelchair, or bed-bound.” She is an only child, and her family consists of her 75-year-old mother, and her husband, Tim Schultz, who is an active member of the Navy Reserve, and can be called away for 30 days at a time. What Karolski-Schultz is hoping for is to connect with one or more people who know how to do fundraising. She said at her stage of MS, the stem cell treatment has a 90 percent success rate of stopping all progression of the MS. “In Mexico, they ablate the stem cells, but not my bone marrow,” Karolski-Schultz said. “You have to have chemo, which wipes out the whole immune system. I can only have my care-giver, which is going to be my husband, with me, and everything has to be sanitized, and they give us an apartment to stay in for 28 days.” She said she would then get injections of a medication that will help stimulate the growth of new stem cells, every 12 hours, around the clock. “That starts the growth of the new stem cells, and those new stem cells have no memory of me having multiple sclerosis,” Karolski-Schultz said. She said the clinic in Mexico has been successfully doing the procedure for 20 years. “My goal is to just to get some help to raise what I need so I can get there and have some of my life left, because I feel like I have been robbed of so much of my life,” she said. “And I feel horrible, because my husband has been taking the brunt of this.” She said she is scared, and some days, she doesn’t have enough energy to get out of bed. “I’m 44, and I feel like I am 84, because I’m tired,” she said. The pandemic has increased her isolation, and she doesn’t go out very much, since she is medically vulnerable. To contribute to Karolski-Schultz’s GoFundMe account, go to: https://bit.ly/3lsrYF7 To contact her about fundraising, send an email to skarolski@gmail.com.Allen Park resident seeking stem cell transplant to cure multiple sclerosis Fundraising is only hope to pay for procedure Sharon Karolski-Schultz (left), and her husband, Tim Schultz, of Allen Park, hope to raise money for a stem cell transplant that is not covered by medical insurance to rid Sharon of multiple sclerosis. (Photo courtesy of Sharon Karolski-Schultz) Sharon Karolski-Schultz (left), and her husband, Tim Schultz, of Allen Park, hope to raise money for a stem cell transplant that is not covered by medical insurance to rid Sharon of multiple sclerosis. (Photo courtesy of Sharon Karolski-Schultz) By SUE SUCHYTA | | PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 4:37 p.m. For Sharon Karolski-Schultz, a former lifesaving paramedic, it is ironic that her own life depends on her ability to raise funds for a stem cell transplant to defeat her multiple sclerosis. Karolski-Schultz, 44, a 22-year resident of Allen Park, who grew up in Dearborn, is a cancer survivor, and had a career as an emergency medical service paramedic, and as a trauma paramedic at Oakwood Hospital before 2016, when MS robbed her of her ability to help others. Currently, her MS symptoms are being treated by medication, which only slows the disease’s progression. “I have exhausted all options as far as medications go,” Karolski-Schultz said. “There is nothing else for me. My only hope is a stem cell transplant – my own, not fetal tissue.” She said the procedure is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which means insurance will not cover its cost. A clinic in Colorado performs the stem cell transplant for a cost beginning at $125,000 to $150,000, while a reputable clinic in Monterrey, Mexico, Clinica Ruiz, which offers the procedure for $65,000, has experienced a strong success rate. “I have raised $10,000 through GoFundMe, but that’s not enough,” Karolski-Schultz said. “My fate without help is to be in a wheelchair, or bed-bound.” She is an only child, and her family consists of her 75-year-old mother, and her husband, Tim Schultz, who is an active member of the Navy Reserve, and can be called away for 30 days at a time. What Karolski-Schultz is hoping for is to connect with one or more people who know how to do fundraising. She said at her stage of MS, the stem cell treatment has a 90 percent success rate of stopping all progression of the MS. “In Mexico, they ablate the stem cells, but not my bone marrow,” Karolski-Schultz said. “You have to have chemo, which wipes out the whole immune system. I can only have my care-giver, which is going to be my husband, with me, and everything has to be sanitized, and they give us an apartment to stay in for 28 days.” She said she would then get injections of a medication that will help stimulate the growth of new stem cells, every 12 hours, around the clock. “That starts the growth of the new stem cells, and those new stem cells have no memory of me having multiple sclerosis,” Karolski-Schultz said. She said the clinic in Mexico has been successfully doing the procedure for 20 years. “My goal is to just to get some help to raise what I need so I can get there and have some of my life left, because I feel like I have been robbed of so much of my life,” she said. “And I feel horrible, because my husband has been taking the brunt of this.” She said she is scared, and some days, she doesn’t have enough energy to get out of bed. “I’m 44, and I feel like I am 84, because I’m tired,” she said. The pandemic has increased her isolation, and she doesn’t go out very much, since she is medically vulnerable. To contribute to Karolski-Schultz’s GoFundMe account, go to: https://bit.ly/3lsrYF7 To contact her about fundraising, send an email to skarolski@gmail.com.