 Log In Log In X Badin High School teacher among those winning city’s top educator honor Christina Dennler was recently announced as one of 19 winners of the annual Educator of Excellence for the 19th annual Harry T. Wilks Hamilton Celebrates Education program sponsored by the Hamilton Community Foundation. Dennler, who is a former full-time realtor, is now in her sixth year of teaching Spanish I & II at Badin High School. Each of the 19 winners' schools receive $1,000. (Provided Photo\Journal-News) Caption NEWS By Michael D. Clark, Staff Writer Updated 4 hours ago A Spanish teacher at Badin High School is among 19 winners of one of the Hamilton city’s top educator honors. Christina Dennler was recently awarded the Educator of Excellence for her school in the 19th annual Harry T. Wilks Hamilton Celebrates Education program sponsored by the Hamilton Community Foundation. Dennler, who is a former full-time realtor, is now in her sixth year of teaching Spanish I & II at Badin. “I’m very humbled and very grateful (for the honor),” said Dennler in a released statement from the school. “The students are a blessing here, and I get such great support from the faculty and staff. I love that every day presents itself with new life and new challenges. The energy of the students is contagious. It keeps me youthful,” she said. Sign up for newsletters from the Journal-News You choose the topics and we'll keep you connected to in-depth local news. GET STARTED Dennler was one of 19 school winners picked, with each one chosen by each building within the city, said foundation officials. “We’re very pleased to recognize so many outstanding educators once again this year,” said Katie Braswell, vice president of the Hamilton Community Foundation. “Carrying on the tradition of the late Mr. Wilks and his tremendous generosity to the community and to local education is something we’re proud to do.” “When making their selection,” Braswell explained, “the schools were asked to consider the daily impact their educator had on students and the community, examples of innovation and going above and beyond the call of duty, and the educator’s overall leadership.” The other 2021 “Hamilton Celebrates Education” Educators of Excellence are: JacquelynBaker - Intervention Specialist - Riverview Elementary School; Brittany Belew - English Teacher - Hamilton High Main Campus; Amy Bijas - Counselor - Hamilton High Freshman Campus; Lisa Brockman - Library Media Specialist - Garfield Middle School; Becky Broxterman - Technology Teacher - St. Ann Catholic School; Lindsey Fanning - Second Grade - St. Peter in Chains School; Jason Grant - Third Grade Math/Science- Highland Elementary School; Jennifer Meadows – Kindergarten - Crawford Woods Elementary School; Amy Michael - Multiple Disability Intervention Specialist - Bridgeport Elementary School; Jeri Murnahan-Bridges - Library Clerk - Ridgeway Elementary School; Jaan Pirn - Upper School Math/6th Grade - Immanuel Lutheran School; Carrrie Roell - Science and Religion Teacher - Queen of Peace School; Meredith Schroeder - Third Grade - St. Joseph Consolidated Schools; Charles Smith- Social Studies- The Miami School; Cindi Spurlock – Kindergarten- Brookwood Elementary School and Shelley Stamp - First Grade - Fairwood Elementary School Normally the award would have been presented to the winners during an October recognition ceremony but the recent uptick in coronavirus cases has pushed that event back to a tentative scheduling sometime in the spring of 2022. All the winning teachers’ schools will receive a $1,000 grant from the Hamilton Community Foundation in their local winner’s name for use in classroom instruction. Explore Fans fill local venues to cheer on Badin Rams Brian Pendergest, principal of Badin, said “we’re thrilled to have Christina teaching at Badin.” “She was recommended to us based on her year at (Hamilton’s) St. Peter In Chains school and obviously it has worked out very well. She brings so much passion and enthusiasm to her classes,” said Pendergest. Dennler, said despite the ongoing pandemic, she is enjoying the current school year and its greater degree of normalcy compared to last school year. Dennler still keeps her hand in the real estate business — she and her husband, Aaron, have restored and sold several houses over the years before the pandemic quieted those efforts. She enjoys spending time with family — she is the guardian to a trio of nieces and nephews — and is a runner, now training for a half-marathon. “Every day is a blessing,” Dennler said. “The relations with the students are special. At Badin, we’re able to live out our faith and share that with the students.” In Other News 1 Afternoon catchup: 5 Butler County stories you need to know today 2 Police investigate alleged gross sexual imposition by Talawanda staffer 3 Free health screenings being offered in Middletown 4 Officials say nurse found sleeping on job, indicted for stealing... 5 Woman shopping inside Kroger has purse snatched; Middletown man... About the Author ajc.com Michael D. ClarkFollow Michael D.  Clark on facebookFollow Michael D.  Clark on twitter Michael Clark has covered northern Greater Cincinnati K-12 schools for more than two decades. Schools – whether they be public or private or post-secondary – are often the centerpieces of communities. This is especially true for Ohio’s Butler and southern Warren counties, two of the most populous and fastest growing areas in the state. CONTENT BY logo © 2021 Journal-News. All Rights Reserved. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. Learn about Careers at Cox Enterprises. NEWS ePaper Local Weather Ohio Lottery Sign Up for Newsletters CUSTOMER SERVICE Contact the Journal-News Our Products Feedback FAQs Photo & Page Reprints MARKETPLACE Classifieds Jobs Cars Homes Advertise Legal Notices SUBSCRIBE Subscribe Now Manage Subscription Your Profile Back to Top  