The Tribune Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window)Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)  Log In Subscribe Christmas show set for Dec. 18 Published 1:56 am Monday, December 6, 2021 By Heath Harrison Brianna Melvin, as the Angel of Message, dances with snow angels during the Yvonne Dekay School of Dance Christmas program in 2019. This year’s show will take place at Ironton High School on Dec. 18. (The Ironton Tribune | Heath Harrison) The annual Yvonne DeKay School of Dance Christmas show will be returning on Dec. 18. The school will feature dancers of all ages in “The Magic of Christmas,” set for 6:30 p.m. in the auditorium at Ironton High School, owner Yvonne Sinnott said. Sinnott, who has taught dance in Ironton for more than five decades, said the show will be an original story, which she composed, that aims to teach “the true meaning of Christmas.” The show will incorporate a number of styles of dance. The school had to cancel their last two dance showcases because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Last year, they opted to do a short, Christmas-themed performance outdoors at Judd Plaza in Ashland, Kentucky. “We are so excited to be having a show after missing two in the past because of the pandemic,” Sinnott said. Sinnott said tickets for the show are $15 and are available for purchase at the school, located at 612 S. Third St. in Ironton. MORE NEWS John Riley Edna Rogers Darrell Bumgarner Thomas Starr Print Article Special Sections Polls When do you put up your Christmas tree in your home?  Week after Thanksgiving  Early December  Mid December  Week before Christmas  Don't put up a tree  Other View Results Sections Home News Sports Opinion Classifieds Small Business Services About Us Policies Submit a News Tip Submit a Photo Engagement Announcement Wedding Announcement Submit A Classified Advertisement Submit a Letter to the Editor Copyright © 2021, The Tribune Create an Account Today Join The Ironton Tribune so you won't miss any important news. In exchange, you'll gain one week of access to the site without pop-up ads or surveys, making your reading experience much faster. Register Now Continue without registration|Already subscribed? Login|Need help? Contact support POWERED BY