 Cincinnati CityBeat Cincinnati Ballet's The Nutcracker Returns to Music Hall in 'Full Pre-Pandemic Splendor' After canceling in-person performances last year due to COVID, Clara, her prince and all of the characters from the Land of Sweets are back. By Maija Zummo on Mon, Dec 6, 2021 at 4:48 pm SEND A NEWS TIP The Cincinnati Ballet's The Nutcracker is back onstage at Music Hall. - PHOTO: PETER MUELLER PHOTOGRAPHY Photo: Peter Mueller Photography The Cincinnati Ballet's The Nutcracker is back onstage at Music Hall. After canceling in-person performances last year due to COVID, Clara, her prince and all of the characters from the Land of Sweets are back onstage at Music Hall for the Cincinnati Ballet's annual rendition of The Nutcracker. And they are heralding its return to "full pre-pandemic splendor," with a live performance of Tchaikovsky’s score performed by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. This year's production is the version created by ballet Artistic Director Victoria Morgan and includes elaborate sets, costumes, lighting and choreography.  It debuted in 2011, and this year's run marks the final staging for Morgan, as she retires from her 25-year tenure with the Cincinnati Ballet at the end of the 2021-22 season. “This whole story, Clara’s story is a child’s fantastic dream,” Morgan says in the release. “The holidays are about joy, and I hope this production brings everyone as much joy as it has brought me over the years. It has been my honor and pleasure to share my Nutcracker with our patrons and the community.” The holiday tale follows the adventures of Clara and her Nutcracker Prince as they do battle with the Mouse King and make their way to the Land of Sweets. Morgan’s version of The Nutcracker is "filled with unique, contemporary twists on longstanding traditions: from the bright, whimsical sets, stage effects and acrobatics to the appearance of new, playful characters such as Clara’s companion, a pet poodle named Minnie; dancing Cupcakes; tumbling Snowballs; an ensemble of poodles performing the Dance of the Mirlitons (or “Mirlipoos”) and more," writes the ballet in a release. As is the custom, the cast also features dozens of Greater Cincinnati children dancing alongside the ballet company — but this year they have to be 12 and older and fully vaccinated. “Children are the heart and soul of the production and bring a magical energy as they perform," says Morgan in the release. The Nutcracker will be onstage at Music Hall (1241 Elm St., Over-the-Rhine) from Dec. 16 through Dec. 26. Proof of COVID vaccination or a negative PCR test from the past 72 hours is required, along with a mask. (Music Hall and the Aronoff Center have adopted a new vaccine passport app, where patrons can — but don't have to — store their information.) Tickets start at $29. Get tickets and more info at cballet.org. Sign up for our weekly newsletters to get the latest on the news, things to do and places to eat delivered right to your inbox. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Join the CityBeat Press Club Local journalism is information. Information is power. And we believe everyone deserves access to accurate independent coverage of their community and state. Help us keep this coverage going with a one-time donation or an ongoing membership pledge. ARTS & CULTURE SLIDESHOWS Donald Trump was a property manager at former Cincinnati apartment complex Swifton Village     We would sum this up but the The L.A. Times did an excellent job of it in a 2016 story. According to The L.A. Times, &#147;At a foreclosure auction in 1964, Fred Trump bought Swifton Village, a half-empty complex that was the largest in Cincinnati. Donald Trump was just a high school senior in a military academy, but assumed increasing responsibility in managing the complex through college and business school. In his book The Art of the Deal, Trump described Swifton Village as his &#145;first big deal.&#146; He recounted, in a chapter titled &#145;The Cincinnati Kid,&#146; booting poor, nonpaying tenants who had &#145;come down from the hills of Kentucky&#146; with &#145;seven or eight children, almost no possessions." 24 Useless Facts About Cincinnati That You Probably Didn't Know Burlington, 1991     "Cassie Jo Hill (1), held by mother Connie, laughs at Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer (Dan Maher)" These Vintage Photos Show What the Holidays Were Like in Northern Kentucky in Decades Past This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields Five Holiday Productions Onstage at Greater Cincinnati Theaters Scrooge, Drunk Santa and Cinderella return to holiday stages this year. By Rick Pender on Thu, Dec 2, 2021 at 11:16 am SEND A NEWS TIP Miranda McGee as  Drunk Santa in "Every Christmas Story Every Told" at Cincinnati Shakespeare Company - PHOTO: MIKKI SCHAFFNER PHOTOGRAPHY Photo: Mikki Schaffner Photography Miranda McGee as Drunk Santa in "Every Christmas Story Every Told" at Cincinnati Shakespeare Company Cincinnati’s mainstream theaters are back for the winter holidays, along with COVID-19 safety precautions (requiring proof of vaccination or a negative test, plus masking). Some productions began before Thanksgiving, but by early December, shows from Know Theatre of Cincinnati, Cincinnati Shakespeare Company, Playhouse in the Park, Ensemble Theatre Cincinnati and the Children’s Theatre of Cincinnati will be delighting audiences in full force. Know Theatre of Cincinnati Know Theatre’s Tamara Winters has staged Reina Hardy’s witty and thought-provoking Glassheart (through Dec. 12). The starting point for Glassheart is the fairy tale “Beauty and the Beast,” but Hardy has reshaped it into a contemporary tale. Adam Tran plays the Beast, now a despairing agoraphobe, hiding out in a barren Chicago apartment after failing in Europe to find love that would end the curse of his ugliness. He’s accompanied by the last of his devoted servants, the faithful and extremely chatty Lamp (Hannah Gregory). His landlord is a thinly disguised witch (Jodie Linver) with her own motives. Rounding out the cast is a very sassy damsel in distress, Aoife (Julie Locker), who is trapped in the apartment and hoping that love will take root. It doesn’t, at least not as expected. Glassheart has a magical undercurrent beneath a veneer of reality, punctured by Aoife’s sassy, honest observations. Gregory’s chipper Lamp is the highlight, although each actor fully embraces Hardy’s offbeat dialogue in exploring the nature of love and self-definition. An intriguing piece of theater, Glassheart is not suited for young children but will be entertaining for teens and adults. 1120 Jackson St., Over the Rhine, knowtheatre.com. Cincinnati Shakespeare Company Perhaps even less suited for young Santa believers is Every Christmas Story Ever Told (and Then Some!) from Cincinnati Shakespeare Company (through Dec. 26). It’s the 15th year for this compendium aimed at older teens and adults, gently satirizing just about every “BHC” (“beloved holiday classic”). Miranda McGee hosts, playing Drunk Santa for the 13th year and delivering wry remarks from a sleigh at stage right. Two other veterans, the innocently and persistently manic Justin McCombs and quick-witted Geoff Barnes, join newbie Candice Handy’s Charles Dickens fan who is frustrated by her disrespectful castmates. The show evolves from year to year with in-the-moment updates. The current gloriously over-decorated iteration has multiple mentions of the COVID-19 pandemic (Santa’s feeble greeting from the audience evokes, “Like me, you’ve forgotten how to talk to one another”) plus there is plenty of gentle humor spawned by recent news, including a running gag involving Pop star Kanye West. The show, staged by Jeremy Dubin, involves audience interaction and lots of spur-of-the-moment ad-libbing by the cast. It’s a laugh-out-loud production from start to finish. 1195 Elm St., Over-the-Rhine, cincyshakes.com. Ebenezer Scrooge (Bruce Cromer, foreground) and Jacob Marley (Greg Procaccino) in the 2021 production of "A Christmas Carol" at Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park - PHOTO: MIKKI SCHAFFNER PHOTOGRAPHY Photo: Mikki Schaffner Photography Ebenezer Scrooge (Bruce Cromer, foreground) and Jacob Marley (Greg Procaccino) in the 2021 production of "A Christmas Carol" at Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park Playhouse in the Park From 1991 to 2019, the Playhouse in the Park’s venerable staging of A Christmas Carol (through Dec. 30) has been a holiday favorite — a true “BHC” — with 1,115 performances attended by nearly 660,000 people. The Playhouse says 2021 is the final presentation of this version of Dickens’s 1843 story of miser Ebenezer Scrooge’s ghostly midnight conversion. A new adaptation is in the works for the holidays in 2023, using the bells and whistles of a new, under-construction mainstage. There’s no word yet about what will be offered for 2022. It’s likely that audiences will flock to see veteran local professional actor Bruce Cromer’s Scrooge one final time. He’s played the role for 17 years, according to the Playhouse, after first appearing as Bob Cratchit for eight. The Playhouse production employs many local performers, including actor Greg Procaccino, who has played nine different characters over the years. Procaccino’s standout roles have included the startling ghost of Jacob Marley and the creepy buyer of stolen goods, Old Joe. The production is a marvel of stage technology, recreating Victorian London by using trap doors and revolving platforms and accompanied by a marvelously eerie, ethereal soundscape. There are nearly 100 Victorian costumes used for each performance, with the costume department keeping two sizes for child actors who might grow while in the show for two or three years. A Christmas Carol uses 13 wigs and eight additional hair pieces such as sideburns, beards and mustaches. 962 Mount Adams Circle, Mount Adams, cincyplay.com. Ensemble Theatre Cincinnati Fractured fairy-tale-based musicals are a long-running holiday tradition at Ensemble Theatre Cincinnati. For more than two decades, the most popular productions have been brushed up and repeated; this year it’s Cinderella (through Dec. 30) for the fourth time. The show is especially imaginative, with Cinderella as a nearsighted bookworm who has a pair of self-absorbed stepsisters and a diva stepmother. Her fairy godmother is a self-empowering “well-wisher.” The romantically challenged Prince, who also is devoted to reading, must pursue his true love with a high-top sneaker rather than a glass slipper. ETC annually uses its excellent acting ensemble for these musicals. Brooke Steele and Patrick Earl Phillips play Cinderella and her Prince, respectively. Michael Bath and Deb Girdler are the hapless King and his overbearing Queen. Sara Mackie and Torie Wiggins are the hilarious stepsisters, and Kate Wilford is their domineering mother. The show “sends a message that inner beauty, strength, and intelligence are the keys to success,” says ETC’s Lynn Meyers, who staged Cinderella. “It’s about finding the better part of yourself and using the rest of your life to celebrate it. It’s a delightful story that will bring laughter, hope, and smiles to adults and children. It was an easy choice to do this show right now. We can all use a little joy and hope.” 1127 Vine St., Over-the-Rhine, ensemblecincinnati.org. Children’s Theatre of Cincinnati Another fine holiday offering for kids is Elf The Musical JR. (Dec. 4-12) by Children’s Theatre of Cincinnati at the Taft Theatre. This 70-minute production, adapted from the 2003 movie starring Will Ferrell, was a record-breaking, sold-out hit for CTC in 2016. It’s the story of Buddy, a human orphan who ends up at the North Pole, thinking he’s an elf. But he’s too big and a clumsy toy maker, so he travels to New York City in search of his real roots. Artistic Director Roderick Justice tells CityBeat, “After two stressful years, we need our spirits lifted through theater.” That’s precisely what Buddy’s story is likely to do for young theatergoers — and their parents. Taft Theatre, 317 E. Fifth St., downtown, thechildrenstheatre.com. Join the CityBeat Press Club Local journalism is information. Information is power. And we believe everyone deserves access to accurate independent coverage of their community and state. Help us keep this coverage going with a one-time donation or an ongoing membership pledge. ARTS & CULTURE SLIDESHOWS Donald Trump was a property manager at former Cincinnati apartment complex Swifton Village     We would sum this up but the The L.A. Times did an excellent job of it in a 2016 story. According to The L.A. Times, &#147;At a foreclosure auction in 1964, Fred Trump bought Swifton Village, a half-empty complex that was the largest in Cincinnati. Donald Trump was just a high school senior in a military academy, but assumed increasing responsibility in managing the complex through college and business school. In his book The Art of the Deal, Trump described Swifton Village as his &#145;first big deal.&#146; He recounted, in a chapter titled &#145;The Cincinnati Kid,&#146; booting poor, nonpaying tenants who had &#145;come down from the hills of Kentucky&#146; with &#145;seven or eight children, almost no possessions." 24 Useless Facts About Cincinnati That You Probably Didn't Know Burlington, 1991     "Cassie Jo Hill (1), held by mother Connie, laughs at Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer (Dan Maher)" These Vintage Photos Show What the Holidays Were Like in Northern Kentucky in Decades Past This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields After a Year Off, 'A Christmas Carol' — and Bruce Cromer as Scrooge — Return to the Playhouse Stage This is Cromer's 17th time playing the Christmas-hating curmudgeon. By Maija Zummo on Mon, Nov 29, 2021 at 12:10 pm SEND A NEWS TIP Ebenezer Scrooge (Bruce Cromer, in the foreground) and Jacob Marley (Greg Procaccino) in the 2021 production of A Christmas Carol at Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park - PHOTO: MIKKI SCHAFFNER PHOTOGRAPHY Photo: Mikki Schaffner Photography Ebenezer Scrooge (Bruce Cromer, in the foreground) and Jacob Marley (Greg Procaccino) in the 2021 production of A Christmas Carol at Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park Like most holiday theater, the Playhouse in the Park's annual production of the classic A Christmas Carol went on hiatus in 2020 due to the pandemic. But Ebenezer Scrooge — and actor Bruce Cromer — are back onstage for this family favorite in 2021. This is Cromer's 17th time playing the Christmas-hating curmudgeon, who finally remembers the reason for the season after being visited by three holiday apparitions. (Although the full version of A Christmas Carol was put on hold last year, Cromer still played Scrooge in a one-man radio play on Cincinnati Public Radio.) Charles Dickens' tale is brought to life on the Playhouse stage this year with full costuming, characters and special effects. “Thousands of families return each year to the Playhouse to make A Christmas Carol a part of their holiday traditions,” says Blake Robison, producing artistic director, in a release. “The enduring message of A Christmas Carol helps to make it one of the Playhouse’s most popular productions each season and a perfect way to introduce children to the joys of live theater.” According to the Playhouse, "More than 659,000 people have enjoyed the story of Ebenezer Scrooge at the Playhouse over the past 29 years, comprising more than 1,100 performances (including 168 student matinees)."  A special audio-described performance of A Christmas Carol takes place at 2 p.m. on Dec. 4, during which time the action onstage will be relayed to those with a closed-circuit receiver. "A small earpiece fits into one ear, allowing patrons to hear dialogue, music and other sound effects," says the Playhouse. "The description is timed to avoid interfering with dialogue." There will also be a signed performance at 2 p.m. on Dec. 5. The show runs through Dec. 30. Tickets start at $40. Discounted tickets are available for children and teens, but children under 5 years old are not permitted. All patrons must show proof of vaccination or a negative COVID test and wear a mask. The Playhouse in the Park is located at 962 Mount Adams Circle, Mount Adams. Tickets and more info: cincyplay.com. Sign up for our weekly newsletters to get the latest on the news, things to do and places to eat delivered right to your inbox. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Join the CityBeat Press Club Local journalism is information. Information is power. And we believe everyone deserves access to accurate independent coverage of their community and state. Help us keep this coverage going with a one-time donation or an ongoing membership pledge. ARTS & CULTURE SLIDESHOWS Donald Trump was a property manager at former Cincinnati apartment complex Swifton Village     We would sum this up but the The L.A. Times did an excellent job of it in a 2016 story. According to The L.A. Times, &#147;At a foreclosure auction in 1964, Fred Trump bought Swifton Village, a half-empty complex that was the largest in Cincinnati. Donald Trump was just a high school senior in a military academy, but assumed increasing responsibility in managing the complex through college and business school. In his book The Art of the Deal, Trump described Swifton Village as his &#145;first big deal.&#146; He recounted, in a chapter titled &#145;The Cincinnati Kid,&#146; booting poor, nonpaying tenants who had &#145;come down from the hills of Kentucky&#146; with &#145;seven or eight children, almost no possessions." 24 Useless Facts About Cincinnati That You Probably Didn't Know Burlington, 1991     "Cassie Jo Hill (1), held by mother Connie, laughs at Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer (Dan Maher)" These Vintage Photos Show What the Holidays Were Like in Northern Kentucky in Decades Past This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard This Historic Ludlow, Kentucky Home Has Riverfront Views and Its Own Mini Vineyard Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields Inside Immersive Van Gogh Exhibition THE LUME at Indianapolis' Newfields TRENDING 7 Pop-Up and Holiday Markets to Shop Local This Winter By Maija Zummo Dec 3, 2021 City Flea Holiday Market Finally, An Immersive Van Gogh Experience Is Coming To Cincinnati By Maggy McDonel Dec 6, 2021 A similar van Gogh projection exhibit is on display at the Indianapolis Museum of Art at Newfields through May 2022. A Christmas Dream or Your Worst Nightmare: Cincinnati SantaCon Returns This December By Maggy McDonel Dec 2, 2021 Cincinnati SantaCon 2019 10 Things To Do in Cincinnati This Weekend (Dec. 3-5) By CityBeat Staff Dec 4, 2021 The Festival of Lights at the Cincinnati Zoo ALSO IN ARTS & CULTURE Black Cincinnati Cinema Collective Honors Film and TV Production Pros By Natalie Clare Dec 6, 2021 Black Cincinnati Cinema Awards honorees with members of the B3C team Drop Off Old Christmas Lights for Recycling at Great Parks of Hamilton County or Across Northern Kentucky By Maija Zummo Dec 6, 2021 Both Great Parks of Hamilton County and multiple destinations in Kenton County are accepting holiday lights for recycling. Hard Rock Casino Cincinnati to Host Lady Gaga-Inspired New Year's Eve Party By Maija Zummo Dec 6, 2021 Hard Rock Casino Cincinnati Tickets for Christ Church Cathedral’s 82nd-Annual Boar’s Head and Yule Log Festival Go Live This Weekend By Maija Zummo Dec 6, 2021 Christ Church Cathedral has been producing the Boar's Head and Yule Log Festival since 1939. MORE DIGITAL ISSUE NOVEMBER 24, 2021 VIEW MORE ISSUES Euclid Media Group, LLC Read our sister publications Cincinnati CityBeat 811 Race Street Cincinnati, OH 45202 Apple News Google News Our website uses technical, analytical, marketing, and preference cookies to provide the best experience for our readers and to give us information about how our site is used. You may request that your data not be shared with third parties here: Do Not Sell My Data. © 2021 Cincinnati CityBeat Powered By Foundation 