 Amid rise in homicides, Ohio proposes $250M of COVID-19 relief aid for police, first responders Titus Wu The Columbus Dispatch A Columbus Division of Police officer uses crime scene tape to block off a homicide scene on Monday, Nov. 8, 2021 at Target at Morse Crossing in Columbus, Ohio. This is the city's 175th homicide of 2021, tying a record set last year. At 11:45 a.m., police responded to a call of shots fired and upon arrival at the scene saw the victim lying outside the entrance to the Target where he had been shot. He was pronounced dead at 11:52 a.m. Republican Gov. Mike DeWine and state lawmakers said Monday they want to direct $250 million in COVID-19 relief grants to law enforcement and other first responders across Ohio. The DeWine administration wants to earmark $175 million to combat a rise in violent crime and $75 million to help officers deal with job stress as well as employee retention efforts. The funds come from the federal American Rescue Plan Act. "Although we have done much to help law enforcement fight crime in Ohio, COVID-19 brought about new challenges for first responders," said DeWine at a news conference. "Challenges that further depleted their ranks and influences a troubling increase in violent crime." The grants may also be used to decrease backlogs in crime labs and assist community police relations that have been limited due to the COVID-19 virus. The funding plan will be included in House Bill 169, which previously proposed giving money to COVID-19-impacted businesses. The bill is sponsored by Reps. Al Cutrona, R-Canfield, and D.J. Swearingen, R-Huron.     Under the proposal, grants will be competitive and open to any law enforcement agency. Supporters say the grants will have more flexibility than previous programs. "I hear... many of these grant programs are so restrictive that they might need resources at their department but they're unable to qualify," said Sen. Nathan Manning, R-North Ridgeville. "There's a lot of diverse needs out there for departments and they'll be able to apply no matter what their need is." Nationwide, there have been concerns about a rise in violent crime in cities over the past two years. The FBI in a September report said there were 21,570 homicides in 2020, a nearly 30% increase from 2019. It's the largest single-year jump since the bureau began recording crime statistics. Cities in Ohio are no exception. Columbus is on pace to set a one-year record again for homicides with at least 182. Akron also saw a record year in 2020, with 56 homicides investigated. As of late October, Cleveland 19 reported that 46 people were killed this year so far in Akron.  In Cincinnati, last year saw a record as well, with around 94 homicides. This year is so far the third highest, with at least 81. There's not one, clear-cut reason for the increases in violent crimes. Some have attributed them to the social and economic stresses from the COVID-19 pandemic, while others point to the more intense atmosphere surrounding policing after the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer. DeWine acknowledged the politically charged atmosphere in his remarks, as progressives have called to shift budgets away from policing in the aftermath of Floyd's death. "When it comes to law enforcement, these past two years have been difficult," said DeWine. "This is clearly not the time to defund the police. This is time to fund the police." Titus Wu is a reporter for the USA TODAY Network Ohio Bureau, which serves the Columbus Dispatch, Cincinnati Enquirer, Akron Beacon Journal and 18 other affiliated news organizations across Ohio. 