 Kenosha.com Clouds 26° Search… Search Kenosha.com Search The Rearing Pond and surrounding park land are located east of 7th Avenue along the Pike River before it exits into Lake Michigan. PHOTOS:SUBMITTED PHOTOS December 6, 2021 LOCAL, NEWS DESIGN TO BEGIN ON PIKE RIVER REARING POND Fund for Lake Michigan grant to Root-Pike WIN launches river mouth improvements BY ROOT-PIKE WATERSHED INITIATIVE NETWORK Mission: Restore, protect and sustain the Root-Pike basin watersheds through the funding and facilitation of a regional network of locally initiated projects  SHARE Root-Pike Watershed Initiative Network (WIN) has received a $45,000 grant from the Fund for Lake Michigan to help the Kenosha Sport Fishing and Conservation Association (KSFCA) and the City of Kenosha improve the natural area around the salmon and trout rearing pond near the mouth of the Pike River. The design phase of program to restore the area has also received funding from the Wisconsin Coastal Management Program and We Energies Foundation.  The rearing pond improvemnts will deliver a number of benefits. The Rearing Pond and surrounding park land are located east of Seventh Avenue along the Pike River before it exits into Lake Michigan. The Rearing Pond raises and imprints juvenile trout and salmon so that mature fish then return to the Pike River to spawn. Fishing for trout and salmon creates recreation and revenue for the City of Kenosha and provides an important connection to the Pike River – a Lake Michigan watershed. Root-Pike WIN and the KSFCA have set out to fortify the rapidly eroding stream bank along the Pike River, create a small outdoor education “patio,” convert unused turf areas and remove invasive species to erosion-reducing native plants, and install swales to lessen the stormwater impacts to the pond, as well as provide better fishing opportunities, and canoe/kayak access. Built in the late 1960s to raise salmon to control the over-population of alewife and other small bait fish, the pond is currently threatened by environmental impacts on all sides. The first phase of the project will address these issues with resilient solutions that also enhance the space’s recreational opportunities. Strand & Associates will lead the design and engineering process that should take about a year to complete. When complete, the near the Pike River mouth will have a fortified stream bank that stops the erosion threatening the rearing ponds stability, a replanted native buffer that stabilizes the bank and provides a habitat for threatened pollinators, and a storm water management feature to mitigate runoff pollutants before they enter the river. The Rearing Pond is also being redesigned so that salmon and trout fingerlings have a more protective shelter, and a durable and more attractive enclosure. Kenosha’s Partners in Design Architects have already begun volunteering design time to create the new Rearing Pond enclosure concept.  HAVE A STORY TO TELL? MESSAGE US RECENT STORIES Design to begin on Pike River Rearing Pond December 6, 2021 Fund for Lake Michigan grant to Root-Pike WIN launches river mouth improvements Real tree tips from the owners of Gretzinger’s Christmas Tree Lot December 6, 2021 How much water, and when? Get suggestions from the experts Foodie Favorite: Crockpot Peanut Butter Hot Chocolate December 6, 2021 Take your favorite hot drink treat to another level Celebrating author and humorist David Sedaris ahead of his visit to promote his latest book, “A Carnival of Snackery” December 5, 2021 Author and humorist coming to Pabst Theater in Milwaukee on Dec. 10 Kenosha Police, Meijer host about 50 area kids at Shop with a Cop Event December 4, 2021 Program returns after year off due to pandemic Nominations now open: Kenosha.com is looking for the best holiday lights displays December 4, 2021 Submissions due by 10 a.m. on December 13, 2021. Ten feel-good movies to watch during the holidays December 3, 2021 Kenosha.com's Brian Hogan provides his favorite films to help celebrate the spirit of the season Budding artists brush up on holiday spirit at the Kenosha Public Museum December 3, 2021 A good time is had by all at Thursday's Holiday Paint & Sip event Fourth generation pitches in as Gretzinger’s Christmas Tree Lot celebrates 82nd season December 3, 2021 Long-standing lot on 75th Street expects to sell 1,000 trees this year Kenosha THE STORY OF US Kenosha.com is a local, digital media platform offering interesting, engaging content created by experienced journalists and local professionals. The platform features a wide range of content including news, features, profiles and reviews, showcasing Kenosha’s outstanding people, places and events. SHOP TRUCK PARTNERS FOUNDERS Douglas Kent Development Felicia Pavlica of RE/MAX Newport Elite Froedtert South Jerry Smith Farm Johnson Financial Group Kenosha Kingfish Lee Mechanical Tenuta’s Deli 12 Spots Available    PLATINUM Laura Stoner of Berkshire Hathaway Cove Realty Dooley & Associates Herzing University Jersey Mike’s Kiddie Kare A’Kademie LaMacchia Travel LiftPro RecPlex Tavern on 6th UW Parkside Athletics 9 Spots Available    GOLD Boys & Girls Club of Kenosha Casa Capri CMIT Solutions Community State Bank Coffee Pot Dick’s Roofing Gateway Mortgage Godin Geraghty Puntillo Camilli & Hughes Hansen’s Pool and Spa Harbor Park Health and Fitness Hospice Alliance    Jockey Being Family Foundation Kenosha Harbor Market Kenosha YMCA Lakeshore Pedal Tours Mobile 1 Piasecki Funeral Home Pitts Brothers & Associates Prairie Side Ace Hardware Prophet Wealth Management Twilight Jazz Valeri Insurance 8 Spots Available © 2021 Kenosha.com Inc. | Privacy Policy 