  Search... Home News Sports Obituaries Business Things To Do Schools Opinion River Falls Journal FAQ Submit News Read More Contact Us Toggle navigation site-logo NEWS COMMUNITY Bold to open in River Falls with a bold take on classic American comfort food Hannah Coyle 1 written by Hannah Coyle Published on Dec 2, 2021 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Bold Burgers Bold is scheduled to open in the next few weeks on Main Street.  The restaurant space at 106 N. Main St., which used to house BX Mexican Cuisine and Bar, will sit dark no longer. Within the next few weeks, it will become a vibrant destination for food, drink, company and dancing.  Bold is taking the classic American comfort food and going in a fresh direction. Though there will be nothing too surprising on the menu, Ben Peterson, co-owner of Fusion Management, said customers can expect a twist.  Over the last few months, the planning for Bold took off. The front of the venue will house a place for friends, family and coworkers to gather for lunch or dinner, complete with a curated menu of food and a drink selection, including local products.  “Business in the front, party in the back,” depicts the adaptable atmosphere of Bold.  Though potentially a later opening, the back of the venue will hold a dance floor for evening excitement. Peterson anticipates bringing in live DJs and live musicians down the line.  There will be a space for everyone.  Fusion Management was created by Peterson and co-owner Brian Sandy in 2020 as the COVID-19 pandemic posed challenges for businesses.  “It was born out of a couple other businesses that had kind of gone under during the pandemic,” said Peterson. “A need to adjust, I guess.”  The owner of the building had been inquiring about filling the vacant space with another restaurant. Fusion, out of Eau Claire, was intrigued by the opportunity and its hospitality team will be managing Bold, which is its own limited liability corporation.  “That bar has been set high by the other establishments here in town,” said Peterson. “We have to meet a certain standard for the community to accept us. We're up to that challenge, and we're excited about that.” Hannah Coyle 1 Written By Hannah Coyle hcoyle@orourkemediagroup.com| Share your opinion AvatarJoin the conversationLog In | Sign Up Sign up for our daily newsletter Our Daily Headlines newsletter will get you up to speed on news, events & more Enter email address See a sample of a recent newsletter Recommended for you Plan the perfect road trip through Wisconsin's 3 nationally-recognized scenic roadways THINGS TO DO Plan the perfect road trip through Wisconsin's 3 nationally-recognized scenic roadways 5 ocean-like beaches to see across Wisconsin THINGS TO DO 5 ocean-like beaches to see across Wisconsin Wisconsin Media Group, LLC to acquire Unified Newspaper Group NEWS Wisconsin Media Group, LLC to acquire Unified Newspaper Group PHOTOS: Stop by these 13 must-see roadside attractions through Wisconsin THINGS TO DO PHOTOS: Stop by these 13 must-see roadside attractions through Wisconsin Most Popular Stories Bold to open in River Falls with a bold take on classic American comfort food Boys Basketball: River Falls rolls to season opening win (9 photos) Andrew D. Clare Two library events to attend this week: author and open house Who’s that girl? RF’s Frisbie bursts on scene at NYC Marathon Sections News Sports Obituaries Business Things To Do Schools Opinion River Falls Journal FAQ Local Events Online Features Services Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Promote Your Event Email Alerts Search Weather site-logo River Falls Journal 120 S. Fourth St. Cannon Falls, MN 55009 Phone: 800-263-3991 Email: customerservice@orourkemediagroup.com © Copyright 2021 River Falls Journal, 120 S. Fourth St. Cannon Falls, MN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 