  Search... Home News Sports Obituaries Business Health Things To Do Schools Opinion Republican Eagle FAQ e-Editions Submit your news Read More Contact Us Toggle navigation site-logo BUSINESS PHOTOS: Bay City farmhouse for sale Rachel Fergus written by Rachel Fergus Published on Dec 3, 2021 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Bay City, Wis. farmhouse for sale Photo from Zillow This 2019 home includes current farmhouse decor trends while ensuring that the interior and exterior design will be timeless.  Inside an open concept gives residents plenty of space for gatherings. While the living room flows into the kitchen, it feels like a separate space with a vaulted ceiling and beams.  Bay City, Wis. farmhouse for sale Photo from Zillow Throughout the home wood and metal accents are used to balance the feeling of an old farmhouse and industrial style. In one of the bathrooms this combination is on full display with an iron-framed shower door, a metal mirror and a wooden vanity.  Home owners could live solely on the main floor. However, the lower level includes two bedrooms, a bathroom and family room. The lower level features a walkout with a covered patio. The main floor has a deck that runs the length of the majority of the front of the house.  Asking price: $695,000 Bedrooms: four Bathrooms: three Square feet: 3,343 Acres: 7.35 Year built: 2019 Bay City 1 of 32 Rachel Fergus Written By Rachel Fergus rfergus@orourkemediagroup.com| Share your opinion AvatarJoin the conversationLog In | Sign Up Sign up for our daily newsletter Our Daily Headlines newsletter will get you up to speed on news, events & more Enter email address See a sample of a recent newsletter Recommended for you Manager Ann Webb will retire from Pierce County Fair in January NEWS Manager Ann Webb will retire from Pierce County Fair in January ‘Voice of the Raiders’: Tuckner hangs up headset after 20 years at KDWA SPORTS ‘Voice of the Raiders’: Tuckner hangs up headset after 20 years at KDWA Red Wing YMCA names Bryan Soper as new executive director NEWS Red Wing YMCA names Bryan Soper as new executive director Gemini named one of the best places to work in Minnesota NEWS Gemini named one of the best places to work in Minnesota Most Popular Stories David Lewis PHOTOS: Bay City farmhouse for sale Goodhue County sheriff report Local arts 10 days out Debra Krebsbach Sections News Sports Obituaries Business Health Things To Do Schools Opinion Republican Eagle FAQ Local Events Online Features Services Submission Forms Classifieds Jobs HQ Place an Ad Promote Your Event Email Alerts Search Weather site-logo Republican Eagle 120 S. Fourth St. Cannon Falls, MN 55009 Phone: 800-263-3991 Email: customerservice@orourkemediagroup.com © Copyright 2021 Republican Eagle, 120 S. Fourth St. Cannon Falls, MN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 