Skip to main content Back to homepage You have an ad blocker enabled ​Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading. Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on journaltimes.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online $4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS Unlimited digital, 50% OFF! Winter Sale! Journal Times TOPICAL TOP STORY Woman dies in Friday crash at Highway 20 and North Britton Road Diana Panuncial 4 hrs ago 1 of 3 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Diana Panuncial KANSASVILLE — The major crash reported Friday by the Racine County Sheriff's Office was a fatal one. A woman died as a result of the collision at the intersection of Highway 20 (Washington Avenue) and North Britton Road.  According to a news release from the Racine County Sheriff's Office, at about 11:30 a.m. Friday the Racine County Communications Center received calls reporting a two-vehicle accident at that intersection. Upon deputies' arrival, the two vehicles involved were in ditches along Highway 20, on opposite sides of the roadway. A red Toyota was reportedly southbound on North Britton; when it reached Highway 20, the operator allegedly failed to yield the right of way to a Ford truck that was eastbound on 20, resulting in the accident. People are also reading… Racine woman allegedly stole more than $1,000 in merchandise from Festival Foods Teen faces possibility of life in shooting death of Racine man Two Racine elementary schools to close at end of school year Racine man allegedly connected to August killing gets $100,000 cash bond Even though people didn't drive a lot last year, traffic deaths actually increased by the largest margin in the last 13 years. 36,680 people died in crashes last year, an increase of 7% from 2019. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration says it's because fewer people were on the roads. So, more people started speeding, not wearing seat belts or driving under the influence. Miles traveled by vehicle fell 13% in 2020 from 2019. The operator of the Toyota, a 69-year-old female from the Town of Norway, sustained life-threatening injuries in the crash and died after being transported to the hospital. The operator of the Ford truck was a 35-year-old man from Silver Lake. He had non-life threatening injuries. Release of further information on the identity of those involved in this crash was pending notification of loved ones, the release said.   The investigation is ongoing. No further information from the Racine County Sheriff's Office is available. Pages from the past, Dec. 6: Britain declares war on three more nations Dec. 6, 1901 Dec. 6, 1901 Dec. 6, 1911 Dec. 6, 1911 Dec. 6, 1921 Dec. 6, 1921 Dec. 6, 1931 Dec. 6, 1931 Dec. 6, 1941 Dec. 6, 1941 Dec. 6, 1951 Dec. 6, 1951 Dec. 6, 1961 Dec. 6, 1961 Dec. 6, 1971 Dec. 6, 1971 Dec. 6, 1981 Dec. 6, 1981 Dec. 6, 1991 Dec. 6, 1991 Dec. 6, 2001 Dec. 6, 2001 Tags Racine County Sheriff's Office Kansasville Crash Racine County Motor Vehicle Highway Transports Car Industry Office Operator Injury Truck North Britton Road Get local news delivered to your inbox! Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Email Address * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy. Diana Panuncial Diana Panuncial Reporter Author email Most Popular Two Racine elementary schools to close at end of school year Two Racine elementary schools to close at end of school year Janes and Dr. Jones elementary schools will be closed at the end of the current school year as Racine Unified School District pivots due to the ongoing Wisconsin Supreme Court battle tied to the $1 billion referendum voted on last year. Racine man allegedly connected to August killing gets $100,000 cash bond Racine man allegedly connected to August killing gets $100,000 cash bond RACINE — A convicted felon facing charges connected to an August killing in Racine has also been accused of having 16 packaged chunks of crack… Same chicken, different flock: New but familiar faces reopen Golden Chicken Same chicken, different flock: New but familiar faces reopen Golden Chicken The new owners of Golden Chicken are couple Yolonda "Yogi" Blair and Terrance Blair, already known in Racine for Yogi's Pud'n. Stop playing politics with COVID-19, says Burlington wife after her husband dies from virus Stop playing politics with COVID-19, says Burlington wife after her husband dies from virus Family and friends are remembering Gary Ketterhagen, a Burlington native and family man who beat cancer, but who could not overcome the COVID-19 virus. Racine woman allegedly stole more than $1,000 in merchandise from Festival Foods Racine woman allegedly stole more than $1,000 in merchandise from Festival Foods MOUNT PLEASANT — A Racine woman allegedly stole more than $1,000 in merchandise from Festival Foods, 5740 Washington Ave., in two thefts occur… Racine man accused of strangling and trying to sexual assault a woman Racine man accused of strangling and trying to sexual assault a woman RACINE — A Racine man has been accused of strangling and trying to sexually assault a woman. Man allegedly dropped food stamp card under truck he stole catalytic converter from in Racine County Man allegedly dropped food stamp card under truck he stole catalytic converter from in Racine County Catalytic converters continue to be a commonly stolen car part. Major crash reported on Highway 20 west of Interstate 94 Major crash reported on Highway 20 west of Interstate 94 A disruption to traffic is expected for several hours. Lt. Michael Luell of the Racine County Sheriff's Office said that traffic in both directions will be diverted south to Plank Road. Teen faces possibility of life in shooting death of Racine man Teen faces possibility of life in shooting death of Racine man The teenager has been identified as Anthony E. Smith Jr., of the 1000 block of Blaine Avenue.  First Latina to be Miss Racine trailblazes with Rubik's Cubes and sneakers First Latina to be Miss Racine trailblazes with Rubik's Cubes and sneakers Take that high heels and ball gowns. Miss Racine 2022 Maria Jose Castillo Venegas made her first appearance five days after earning her crown at a Thanksgiving event wearing a dressy jump suit and ballet flats. Watch Now: Related Video Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us' Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics WH announces diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined' Italian man who tried to use fake arm to avoid COVID shot says life is 'ruined' Journal Times Sites & Partners I Love A Deal Wheels for You Home Finder Online Features Work here Services Start a subscription Activate your digital subscription Subscriber services Become a Carrier Contact us © Copyright 2021 The Journal Times, 212 Fourth St. Racine,WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 