

Supporting enterprise, solutions journalism
By Kristen Czaban | kristen.czaban@thesheridanpress.com Oct 11, 2021 Updated Oct 11, 2021 Comments

Sheridan, we need your help.

The Sheridan Press has been dedicated to informing and engaging our community since 1887. Over the many years, we have covered world wars, elections, festivals, crimes and celebrations.

Just like many other organizations and businesses, The Sheridan Press has seen the dynamics of our local, state and national economy shift over the last several years. While our staff has worked tirelessly to cover this shift each day, we'd like to spend more time diving in and answering questions about:

• why the changes are happening; 

• how we're preparing for them locally and at the state level; and

• how other communities have adapted to similar changes.

This coverage will include a deeper look at the local growth in manufacturing, tourism and other industries as well as the challenges created, at least in part, by that growth. These challenges include housing, child care, workforce shortages and other issues. 

If you believe local journalism is essential, especially now, please consider making a tax-deductible donation. Your contribution will help pay for news resources and staff to cover these shifting trends in our community. 

Our small staff of just five full-time journalists is responsible for broad and diverse news coverage. Their beats range from local schools and sports to our justice system and governing bodies. There's rarely a dull day.

Your tax-deductible donation will help us expand that news coverage further. 

If you find value in local journalism, please support us. And, if you don't already, please subscribe to our newspaper. 

Kristen Czaban

Publisher, The Sheridan Press

The Sheridan Press — 2021 Local News Fund is a program administered by Local Media Foundation, tax ID #36‐4427750, a Section 501(c)(3) charitable trust affiliated with Local Media Association. Funds donated to this program support local journalism projects to inform and educate the public on critical local issues. Through this program, LMF provides funds to this news organization and many others to support these important efforts. Contributions to this program are tax-deductible to the full extent of U.S. law; please consult a tax advisor for details. No goods or services are provided in exchange for contributions.
