Monday, December 6, 2021
 Log in

NEWS
SPORTS 
CALENDAR
OPINION 
OBITUARIES
MARKETPLACE 
PUBLIC NOTICES
SEND US YOUR NEWS! 
WEB EXTRAS 
SUBSCRIBER SERVICES 
 You have 3 free items remaining before a subscription is required.   Subscribe now!   |   Log in

New Ralston business gives the Big Horn Basin mobility
Jackie Vaiskauskas, Chris Pelletier and Ed Vaiskauskas show off some of the new models of scooters available at the Mobility Plus franchise in Ralston next door to Pelletier’s Heart Mountain Hearing Center.
Jackie Vaiskauskas, Chris Pelletier and Ed Vaiskauskas show off some of the new models of scooters available at the Mobility Plus franchise in Ralston next door to Pelletier’s Heart Mountain Hearing Center.
TRIBUNE PHOTO BY MARK DAVIS
PreviousNext

Posted Friday, December 3, 2021 8:10 am
By Mark Davis
Powell entrepreneur Chris Pelletier is determined to help the “beautiful” downtown Ralston business district grow. Already well-known as the owner of the Heart Mountain Hearing Center, he has just opened a new franchise store that he hopes will help his customers continue rocking and rolling.

With the doors now open to the new franchise, Chris and wife Anita now have three business fronts open on Ralston’s Main Street. The most recent addition is Mobility Plus, which offers support for customers who want to stay active and mobile, and age in place in their own home.

For Pelletier, known for his broad smile and gregarious nature, the business is a natural fit for folks looking for the freedom to enjoy their homes, their community and friends, despite physical challenges.

Pelletier started Heart Mountain Hearing due to a passion to communicate and inspired by his own significant hearing loss. His experience — understanding the importance of communication — helped make him popular with his customers. By listening to them, he knew mobility was an area where he could also help make improvements for his clients’ lives.

“There really isn't any business in the area servicing mobility needs on a full-time basis,” he said in a recent interview.

Mobility Plus combines great value with the most reliable mobility products in the industry, he said. They offer internet pricing but with the delivery, installation and service you can’t get with an online business. 

The company promise is to “take the hassle out of your hands, promising a job well done and a perfect installation and smooth purchasing experience every time.”

Pelletier purchased the neighboring building and immediately began making improvements. They replaced and refurbished everything, from the sidewalks leading to the front door, to both rebuilding and refurbishing the exterior and interior of the store. The business is the first of its kind in northwest Wyoming, he said.

“There's no place that has it all in our area in one stop,” Pelletier said. “I can do chairlifts, beds, scooters, carts, lifts and built-in or portable ramps that will help people get back in their house. We can create and set up equipment for any situation, often in a matter of a day.”

The company will also specialize in rentals. “If someone needs a scooter for just a couple of months or if they're coming to Yellowstone and they want to have a way to get around the park, they can come to us.”

Pelletier said one of his secrets of success is quality employees. “I have a great crew,” he said.

The team is ready to go to their clients’ homes to do a mobility assessment. “We will be able to come in and do a site survey and recommend options on how to improve their current living situation.”

The Pelletier family recently moved to a new mid-century home in Powell. It’s really a showplace for the couple and full of memories. Chris knows the best place to be is where you feel comfortable. Like the old saying goes: Home is where the heart is.

Anita Pelletier’s 20th Century Collectibles is opening soon, moving her business from Powell to Ralson. The three stores have changed the look of downtown Ralston. 

“Ralston has a lot of potential; I believe in Ralston,” Chris said. “I'm trying to do my part of utilizing what we have to give our customers — another option to shop and to stay local.”

Comments
NO COMMENTS ON THIS ITEM PLEASE LOG IN TO COMMENT BY CLICKING HERE

OTHER ITEMS THAT MAY INTEREST YOU

Encouraging creativity through therapeutic art
New website seeks to answer teens’ persistent questions
Healthy Holidays: Celebrating the season safely
Northwest Family Planning is now Northwest Health Care
Search
Advanced search
LOCAL NEWS
Encouraging creativity through therapeutic art

New website seeks to answer teens’ persistent questions

Healthy Holidays: Celebrating the season safely

Northwest Family Planning is now Northwest Health Care

New Ralston business gives the Big Horn Basin mobility

eleven County Connection logo




Powell Tribune December 2, 2021
View this issue

Browse other issues


128 South Bent Street
Powell, WY 82435
1-307-754-2221

SECTIONS
NEWS
SPORTS
CALENDAR
OPINION
OBITUARIES
MARKETPLACE
PUBLIC NOTICES
SEND US YOUR NEWS!
WEB EXTRAS
SUBSCRIBER SERVICES
SERVICES
Advertising Rates
Contact Us
Report News
Subscribe
Order Photos
CONNECT WITH US
   
© COPYRIGHT 2021 POWELL TRIBUNE | TERMS OF USE / PRIVACY POLICY | CANCELLATION / REFUND POLICY
POWERED BY CREATIVE CIRCLE MEDIA SOLUTIONS
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Print
Share to Email
More AddThis Share options
1
SHARES