 Menu
THE TORRINGTON TELEGRAM
SUBSCRIBE LOGIN
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021

 Subscribe
Already a subscriber? LOGIN »


Salvation Army rings in holiday season

By: Holly Dorman - Updated: 4 days ago

Posted Dec 2, 2021

  
TORRINGTON – No matter the religion or denomination, many people feel inclined to give during the holiday season. Some people give money, some people give time and some people give gifts to people they don’t know.

The Salvation Army recruits volunteers every year to help raise funds by standing outside grocery stores and other local stores with a bell and red kettle, a sight often associated with the holiday spirit. WYO Help is recruiting volunteers to ring the bell this season, helping raise funds for The Salvation Army. 

The Salvation Army does not have national fundraising efforts, so the money donated within local communities stays in local communities. For the Kettle Drive, 90% of the money stays in Goshen County to aid those in need of help while the remaining 10% goes to pay The Salvation Army staff who oversee operations giving assistance.

When disaster strikes, victims can find themselves in need of food, money for rent and utilities, temporary housing and sometimes medical needs. The Salvation Army works to meet those needs, often facing fewer restrictions than WYO Help.

In 1891, Salvation Army Captain Joseph McFee stood on the Oakland Ferry Landing with a kettle and a sign reading “Keep the Pot Boiling.” Passersby tossed their spare change into the kettle, and McFee soon had enough money to feed many of San Francisco’s neediest on Christmas Day. Since then, volunteers ringing bells with a kettle for donations have become a holiday fixture.

The Kettle Drive in Goshen County began Nov. 27 and will continue through Dec. 23. Those wanting to ring the bell can go to wyohelp.com to sign up.

TRENDING RECIPE VIDEOS

MORE IN HOME 
Youth program presented to community
 
Thomas to continue golf career at Weber State
 
Sportsmen club hosts Uncle Dave’s Youth Shoot
 
Community members fight mask mandate
THE TORRINGTON TELEGRAM
2025 Main St. Torrington WY 82240
307-532-2184

Follow Us
  
ttnews@torringtontelegram.com
MAIN MENU
Community
Opinion
Sports
Obituaries
Legal Notices
Employment Opportunities
Records
Wyoming News
Classifieds
QUICK LINKS
Contact
Subscribe
Support
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Login
Search
Site Search
© 2021 News Media Corporation. All Rights Reserved