Norwalk schools employee under investigation for allegedly using ‘racially insensitive language’ Photo of Emily Morgan Emily Morgan Dec. 6, 2021 Facebook Twitter Email Comments Norwalk Public Schools is investigating allegations of an employee at Nathan Hale Middle School using racially insensitive language last week. Norwalk Public Schools is investigating allegations of an employee at Nathan Hale Middle School using racially insensitive language last week. Erik Trautmann / Hearst Connecticut Media NORWALK — The city’s public schools have placed a Nathan Hale Middle School employee on administrative leave following allegations that the individual used racially insensitive language. Norwalk Public Schools became aware of the “concerning allegations” early last week, according to Brenda Wilcox Williams, chief of staff and communications. The employee was immediately placed on administrative leave pending an investigation into the alleged misconduct, she said. A similar statement was posted on the school district’s Facebook page on Sunday. “Although we consider personnel matters to be confidential, we take this opportunity to be clear that we have zero tolerance for racial insensitivity and take seriously our responsibility and commitment to maintaining an environment in which everyone feels welcome,” Wilcox Williams said. The district has been providing racial sensitivity training for students and staff, but “recent events remind us that we must strengthen our efforts,” she said. “We regret that our community has been disrupted by recent events. There is simply no excuse for the use of racially insensitive language at any time or by any person and we expect all members of the Norwalk school community to treat each other with respect and dignity,” Wilcox Williams said. The local NAACP chapter is demanding answers from the school district after it learned of the incident. More News Norwalk schools distribute over 600 donated coats City police spread cheer with ‘stuff-a-cruiser’ fundraiser The NAACP accused the district of being “quick to weigh-in on students and impose discipline on them even in sketchy or insignificant actions or activity, and particularly in the case of black and brown students” while being “very reluctant to impose discipline on teachers when they clearly engaged in inappropriate and unacceptable behavior.” The school district did not acknowledge whether the incident involved a teacher.