Here’s when Connecticut ski resorts open for the season Photo of Andrew DaRosa Andrew DaRosa Nov. 30, 2021 Updated: Nov. 30, 2021 4:57 p.m. Facebook Twitter Email A file photo of the Powder Ridge Mountain Park & Resort chair lift in Middlefield.  1 of 8 A file photo of the Powder Ridge Mountain Park & Resort chair lift in Middlefield.  Catherine Avalone / Journal Register Co. Grab your snowboards and skis. Winter is coming and Connecticut's ski areas are getting ready to open their doors for the tubers, skiers and snowboarders.  Though a quick look outside may confirm that there aren't inches of snow on the ground, Connecticut's ski resorts pump in enough "synthetic snow" so that riding on the mountains won't be an issue without snowfall.  Whether you approach winter sports professionally or just are looking for a day out with some friends, here are when Connecticut's four ski resorts are opening as well as what COVID precautions you can expect at the resorts this year.   Mount Southington Ski Area Plantsville State Sen. Ted Kennedy Jr., right, joined others for the Leap Of Faith Adaptive Skiers and New England Healing Sports program Tuesday at Mount Southington in Plantsville. State Sen. Ted Kennedy Jr., right, joined others for the Leap Of Faith Adaptive Skiers and New England Healing Sports program Tuesday at Mount Southington in Plantsville. Peter Hvizdak — New Haven Register Opening day: Dec. 11 Rentals: Yes Adult season pass price: $675 Adult one-day price: $64 for 8 hours or $59 for 4 hours (weekends), $40 between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. (weekdays) COVID precautions: Mount Southington Ski Area will "follow all state and federal guidelines related to COVID-19." Masks are not required outdoors but are highly recommended indoors. Advanced online ticketing and outdoor food services will also be available this season.  Powder Ridge Mountain Park & Resort Middlefield A snowboarder gets air at Powder Ridge Mountain Park in Middlefield. A snowboarder gets air at Powder Ridge Mountain Park in Middlefield. CT Office of Tourism / Contributed photo Opening day: Dec. 15 Rentals: Yes Adult season pass price: $570 Adult one-day price: $57 for 8 hours or $54 for 4 hours (weekends), $49 for 4 hours (weekdays) COVID precautions: Powder Ridge Mountain Park & Resort will follow state and federal guidelines in regards to COVID-19. Mohawk Mountain Ski Area Cornwall The sunny slopes of Mohawk Mountain in Cornwall are open, and owners say skiiers are happy to be outdoors and enjoying the winter weather. The sunny slopes of Mohawk Mountain in Cornwall are open, and owners say skiiers are happy to be outdoors and enjoying the winter weather. Mohawk Mountain/ Contributed photo Opening day: Dec. 3 Rentals: Yes Adult season pass price: $679 Adult one-day price: $70 for unlimited or $65 for 4 hours (weekends, holidays), $35 for unlimited (weekdays) COVID precuations: Use of the lodge at Mohawk Mountain Ski Area will be limited to 30 minutes for warming and  45 minutes for eating. Masks are required indoors for all unvacccinated guests. Guests are asked to not bring food from home or leave belongings unattended. A new RFID system will be used for entrance this season. Ski Sundown New Hartford A skier at Ski Sundown in New Hartford. A skier at Ski Sundown in New Hartford. John Torsiello / For Hearst Connecticut Media / Opening day: TBA Rentals: Yes Adult season pass price: $675 Adult one-day price: $64 for 8 hours or $58 for 4 hours (weekdays, weekends, holidays)  COVID precautions: Ski Sundown will follow "all state and federal COVID-19 guidelines." An updated COVID-19 Responsibility Code states that masks are "highly recommended" indoors and guests are asked not to congregate at the resort.