Santa shortage caused by COVID: ‘They tend to get sick’ Jailene Cuevas Dec. 2, 2021 Updated: Dec. 3, 2021 9:25 a.m. Facebook Twitter Email Comments Santa Claus and three reindeer: Dancer, Dasher and Prancer, return to Sam Bridge Nursery and Greenhouses for the 13th Annual Reindeer Festival and Santa's Workshop in Greenwich, Conn., on Friday November 26, 2021. 1 of 9Buy Photo Santa Claus and three reindeer: Dancer, Dasher and Prancer, return to Sam Bridge Nursery and Greenhouses for the 13th Annual Reindeer Festival and Santa's Workshop in Greenwich, Conn., on Friday November 26, 2021. Christian Abraham, Staff Photographer / Hearst Connecticut Media Meeting Santa Claus is a yearly tradition for some families, but a reported nationwide shortage of Santas means there are fewer St. Nicks out there to meet this year. And COVID is to blame. Mitch Allen, founder of Hire Santa, a national Santa hiring company (once featured on "Shark Tank"), said, "We are seeing at least 120 percent increase in our demand for Santa Claus services this year but actually have 15 percent fewer Santas due to a number passing way from COVID." Allen also said that many are opting out of events due to COVID because they are "high risk, or they are aging out and retiring from being Santa." Even with a busy schedule being a state representative, Bill Buckbee of New Milford has spent his holiday seasons being Santa since he was in his 20s. He’s even appeared on Comedy Central in the role, and wrote a book about it called “Behind the Beard.” He works for The Santa Claus Company and said people have called for him to fill in as some places are having trouble finding a Santa.  "Santa Claus traditionally is an older man and they tend to get sick. With COVID still around, I am not surprised that there is a shortage," he said. "It hurts having to say no to some ... I can't take on more than I already do." SPECTRUM/Bill Buckbee of New Milford shared his buoyant personality with folks in the Tupolo, Miss. area during his holiday season gig as Santa Claus. December 2010. This is a photo sent as a postcard to friends back home. Courtesy of Bill Buckbee SPECTRUM/Bill Buckbee of New Milford shared his buoyant personality with folks in the Tupolo, Miss. area during his holiday season gig as Santa Claus. December 2010. This is a photo sent as a postcard to friends back home. Courtesy of Bill Buckbee ST Despite the shortage, Connecticut venues and events are welcoming back Santa this year. Buckbee's next events are the New Haven Tree Lighting on Thursday, Dec. 2 and an appearance at Harrybrooke Park in New Milford on Saturday, Dec. 4. He said being Santa Claus is "the most rewarding thing he could ask to do." And unlike 2020, which was the year of Santa behind Plexiglass, most places are offering both socially distanced and non-socially-distanced options for Santa photos.  Connecticut Post Mall's marketing director, Kelly Hapken said the mall is excited to have Santa back and did not have a problem finding Santas this year. The requirement was that Santa and his elves to be vaccinated. "Safety remains our top priority. With the exception of Santa, our photo partner Cherry Hill Programs' staff and associates are required to wear face coverings. Guests are not required to wear masks," she said. Danbury Mall has also hired Cherry Hill Santas and requires all staff, including Santa Claus to be vaccinated except for medical and religious exemptions. COVID testing is mandatory for exempt employees. At Stew Leonard's in Danbury and Norwalk, all Santas will be vaccinated and stationed outdoors. "They are unmasked, however depending on the parents’/guardians’ comfort level, they are happy to put on their mask for a socially distanced photo with children,” said spokeswoman Meghan Bell.