Top 20 boys ice hockey players to watch on Cape Cod this winter Courtney Jacobs Cape Cod Times During last year's winter high school sports season many teams did not have a chance to play or they played in a shortened season because of the pandemic. This season, the full schedules are back and players are ready to get back on the ice. In 2020, Falmouth defeated Barnstable 5-3 in the first round of the Division 1 South Sectional playoffs. The team made it to the semi-finals but lost to Walpole 2-1. In the Division, St. John Paul II, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket all made the playoffs. Martha's Vineyard and St. John Paul made it to the quarterfinals but were both eliminated. John Paul II was the second seed with a 16-2-2 record. Looking ahead to the new winter season, these key players are expected to not only have an impact on their respective teams but also in the Cape & Islands leagues against their opponents.  Sam Howell of Barnstable knocks Brady Sargent of Weymouth to the ice as they collide during a Feb. 20, 2020 game. Howell is one of the players to watch in the upcoming season. Shea Semprini, Barnstable Red Hawks Semprini is a second-year varsity team member. He is a big, physical forward who sees the ice well and has a great shot. Joe Longueil, Barnstable Red Hawks Longueil is entering his third season on varsity. Barnstable will look to him to help carry the offense. He is a creative forward who the puck always seems to find and will be fun to watch this season.  Sam Howell, Barnstable Red Hawks Howell has been on varsity since he was a freshman and will help lock down the blue line. He is also capable of pitching in on the offense. Howell is not afraid to throw his weight around, usually providing a spark to the team.  Tyler Evans, Bourne Canalmen Evans has played a large role for Bourne since his freshman year. Now as a senior, he is a skilled player who is focused on being successful and is looking forward to his opportunity to lead this team. He has the ability to create his own opportunities, but he is truly at his best when he is distributing the puck and creating shots for his linemates.    Max Civilinski, Bourne Canalmen  Civilinski is entering his second season on the team as a senior after he started his high school career at Sturgis Charter Public School. Civilinski is an aggressive, hard-working forward for Bourne. He is a good role model for the younger players because he shows them how they need to come and work on their game every day, put in the effort and have a great attitude. Owen Surrette, Bourne Canalmen Although Surrette will be entering his third season on the team, this will be his first as a defenseman instead of the center position he usually plays. He is an unselfish player who focuses on team success before individual success. Surrette is the classic lead-by-example player, who is always showing younger players what it takes to succeed on and off the ice. "We are lucky to have these players as leaders, and we expect them to help bring along our younger players on the ice and work to continue the team culture we have developed over the years," Bourne head coach Frank Carpenito said. Aidan Powers, Dennis-Yarmouth/Cape Cod Academy/Upper Cape Tech Powers is a returning junior, three-year starter, and one of the assistant captains. This team will need Powers to play solid two-way hockey all season and be a leader on and off the ice.   Luke Spinner, Dennis-Yarmouth/Cape Cod Academy/Upper Cape Tech Spinner is one the new players this season as part of the Cape high school co-op team. He had a successful fall preseason and the team hopes that success will roll into the high school season. He is a solid defenseman with a good skill set and excellent hockey IQ.   Cole Rounseville, Dennis-Yarmouth/Cape Cod Academy/Upper Cape Tech Rounseville is a first-year varsity starter. He worked hard the past two seasons on the junior varsity team. He had a good fall season and the team will lean on him to win some games this year.   "As a first-year Co-op program with Cape Cod Tech and Cape Cod Academy, we are excited to have numbers and to put a competitive team on the ice to compete among the Cape and Island schools, Building team identity will be our first goal and establishing a team with solid team defense," Head Coach Lewis Alberti said.  Marthas Vineyard goalie Graham Stearns stops a shot by Rob Cardillo of Sandwich during a Dec. 12, 2019 game. Stearns is a player to watch in the upcoming season. Graham Stearns and Oliver Lively. Martha's Vineyard High Vineyarders "I’d emphasis our goaltending tandem senior captain Stearns and senior Lively," Martha's Vineyard head coach Matt Mincone said. "Both are very capable of stealing a game and will battle each other for every start. Graham is a four-year player and Oliver transferred back to MV last season."   Jake Scott and Will Bruguiere Martha's Vineyard High Vineyarders Scott is a very powerful skater with goal-scoring abilities. "Senior transfer Will Bruguiere will also be a player to watch," Mincone said.  Hudson Perry, Nantucket Whalers The Nantucket offense will be led by senior captain Perry, who is one of the more skilled players on Cape & Islands this season. He has been one of the Whalers' top scorers in each of the last three seasons. He is a 200-foot player with a very high hockey IQ, and will be a great leader for Nantucket. Evan Belanger & Mike Culkins, Nantucket On the defense, Nantucket will look to senior captain Belanger and sophomore Mike Culkins. "They were both big contributors last season, and improved greatly over the season," Nantucket head coach Scott Corbett said. "They both are strong defensively, but also have the ability to contribute offensively." Griffin Starr, Nantucket Whalers As a sophomore, Starr will we be replacing two goalies who graduated in the spring. He’s a big, athletic, positionally sound goalie, who will need to adjust to the speed of the varsity game. Corbett says he has confident that Griffin will play great for the Whalers this season. Caleb Richardson, Sandwich Blue Knights Richardson is one of the leading scorers returning from last year's team and will provide more of the same this year.  He has a great shot with a quick release. He contributes in all three zones and is a member of the special teams as well. Colin McIver, Sandwich Blue Knights McIver is a responsible center with great skill and willingness to compete. He is not only a goal scorer and playmaker, but he also contributes in ways that don’t show up on the stats sheet.   Mitchell Norkevicius, Sandwich Blue Knights Norkevicius is a returning Cape & Islands-Atlantic all-star and the backbone to the Blue Knights. He makes big stops during big times and is a fierce competitor, but very cool under pressure. The Falmouth and Mashpee high schools athletic directors and coaches from Nauset Regional High School, John Paul II and Upper Cape Tech did not provide information for this list by the Times publication deadline. Contact Courtney Jacobs at cjacobs@capecodonline.com. Follow him on Twitter: @CJ_Journalist.