Entire roster back as EHS boys prepare for year of high expectations December 6, 2021 by Mike Mandell on Basketball, Sports      ELLSWORTH — Last winter threw basketball teams all throughout Maine for a loop. Nobody made the best of it better than the Ellsworth boys’ basketball team. After graduating a large, experienced senior class in 2020, it would’ve been easy to see an Ellsworth team returning only one player with significant experience to go through its share of growing pains. Add in the difficulties of the pandemic year, and the Eagles were in an unenvious position in 2020-21. In the end, though, none of that remotely fazed a young Ellsworth team. Overcoming their inexperience with fast-paced tempo and plenty of talent, the Eagles finished 12-4 and won the Big East Conference’s Class B pod championship. “Looking back, I’d say we took away the fact that we’re pretty good,” senior Hunter Curtis said. “We didn’t know for sure what we’d be able to do because we were such a young team, but our [freshmen] stepped up, and we were able to do something special.” With not a single player having departed from last year’s team, the Eagles have big goals in mind for 2021-22. As fans return to the Katsiaficas Gymnasium bleachers after last year’s games behind closed doors, an Ellsworth team that’s back to playing its standard Class B schedule is set to put on a show. Ellsworth’s Miles Palmer defends against GSA’s David Gadsby during the first half of a high school boys’ basketball preseason game Dec. 2 at Ellsworth High School. Ellsworth has impressed in preseason action thus far with an 81-54 win over GSA and a 73-68 loss last Monday against Class AA contender Bangor. ELLSWORTH AMERICAN PHOTO BY MIKE MANDELL Ellsworth enters the season with sophomore and senior classes stacked with top-tier experience and talent. The current crop of players is one that has been playing with one another on and off for the past few years at the middle and high school levels, where it has consistently capped off recent seasons with league championships. “We come together again as a group every year or two, so even though we kind of have two classes in different grades, we really mesh together well,” sophomore Miles Palmer said. “We love playing with each other, and we love putting in the work together.” Leading the way for Ellsworth’s senior class is Curtis, who emerged as an all-around star as the only starter returning from the Eagles’ regional final run the previous year. Last season, Curtis averaged 16.8 points per game and also led Ellsworth in rebounds (6.8) and assists (3.3) per game over the first nine games. Also making a major step up for Ellsworth as a junior last year was Eamon MacDonald, whose 7.8 points per game included 16-point efforts against Old Town and Orono, respectively, in last year’s Big East playoffs. Brett Bragdon, Brody Mercier, and Michael Palmer also recorded several multi-basket games for the Eagles’ cohesive Class of 2022. Ellsworth’s top scorer, though, was Chance Mercier, who averaged 17.6 points per game as a freshman last year. Mercier, who also averaged 5.6 rebounds over the Eagles’ first nine games, scored a season-high 33 points in Ellsworth’s regular season loss to Mount Desert Island before dropping a respective 24 and 28 points in the team’s playoff wins over MDI and Old Town. Mercier, Kaleb Conners, Michael Harris and Miles Palmer are part of an Ellsworth Class of 2024 that won back-to-back Eastern Maine Middle School League titles in 2018-19 and 2019-20. Chance and Brody Mercier and Miles and Michael Palmer give the team two sibling duos, and Curtis (Jackson, Class of 2020) and Harris (Zach, 2018; Austin, 2020) also know what it’s like to see older brothers go through the Ellsworth basketball ranks. “Brothers always fight a little bit, but I know from my time with Jackson that it’s always good to have your big brother backing you up,” Curtis said. “Miles might not admit that, but it is true. … Then you’ve got Brody, who’s not scared to let [Chance] hear it. It’s great.” Ellsworth’s Hunter Curtis possesses the ball as GSA’s Bryce Schneider defends during a high school boys’ basketball preseason game Dec. 2 at Ellsworth High School. Ellsworth will open the regular season with a home game against Mount View at 12:30 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 11, before hosting Mount Desert Island at 7 p.m. next Wednesday, Dec. 15. BARRY GUTRADT PHOTO Thus far, Ellsworth has put forth two quality performances in its two preseason contests. The Eagles fell 73-68 to a Bangor team with Class AA title ambitions in last Monday’s preseason opener before topping Class C contender George Stevens Academy 81-54 on Thursday. Despite those more-than-respectable results against well-rounded teams, Curtis and head coach Peter Austin believe the team has to shore things up on the defensive end. Ellsworth gave up 44 second-half points to Bangor and 34 points to GSA over the second and third quarters, and the Eagles know full well that’s not good enough. “Our defense and our rebounding is not where we want it to be, and on offense, you can see we can get up and down the floor pretty good, but it’s not fluid quite yet,” Austin said. “There’s a lot of improvement to be made, but we also don’t want to be flying too high early; we want to peak at the right time.” Ellsworth is scheduled to face another stern preseason test when it faces Class A Brewer at 6:30 p.m. tomorrow, Dec. 7, at Brewer High School. Two of the Eagles’ four losses last season came at the hands of the Witches, who topped Ellsworth 62-43 in the regular season and 69-52 in the cross-class Big East championship game. Ellsworth will then open the regular season with home games at 12:30 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 11, against Mount View and 7 p.m. next Wednesday, Dec. 15, against MDI. Although the Eagles’ season-long goals don’t take much reading between the lines, their focus now is soaking in the first games in front of cheering fans for the first time since February 2020. “We have to play hard in these games right in front of us and not worry about Game 20, Game 22 or whatever happens in the playoffs right now,” Austin said. “When that time comes, hopefully we’ll have a good seed in the playoffs and be able to win that last game we play.”