 Gift of Warmth: Portsmouth mom gets help to keep lights and heat on for her children Karen Dandurant Fosters Daily Democrat Kim Hart, seen with her son John, 23, is grateful she received help from Rockingham Community Action to keep heat and electricity on at her home. PORTSMOUTH — When electric bills threatened to overwhelm one Portsmouth mom, Rockingham Community Action helped her keep the lights on. Kimberly Hart said she first contacted the assistance organization a little over three years ago, when she lived in the city with her three children. Currently one daughter, Liz, 19, remains at home. John, 23 and Alex, 26 live nearby. "I fell behind on my electricity bills," said Hart, who was married at the time. "Then as I tried to catch up, the bills got more and more out of control. When it reached the point where the electric company wanted $250 a month or they were going to disconnect my services, I went to Community Action. My back was against the wall, and you will really do whatever it takes to keep the lights on, keep the heat going for your children." Gift of Warmth Hart said the staff worked with her to negotiate a more affordable payment plan with her electric provider. They reduced her payments by half, to $125 a month. "They set up payments I could afford and I have been paying that for about three and a half years," said Hart. "It meant less money was coming out of my paycheck each month. This year, in September, the amazing staff at Community Action paid off my balance. They said I had been working so hard, and was so good at keeping the payment plan going, that they decided to pay it off. Now, I will have a regular bill and am in a better position so this should not happen again." I always felt like they were saying, 'We got you Kim' Hart said she had never sought help before but to anyone who needs it, she said go and ask. Hart is in a better situation now and is also celebrating the birth of two grandchildren, a boy and a girl, in October and November of this year. "They were so kind to me," she said of the Community Action staff. "The way they work with you, the way they check up to see how you are doing is amazing. I never felt bad about myself, and I always felt like they were saying, 'We got you Kim.'" Kim is one of hundreds of people helped over the past 15 years by the Gift of Warmth fund, a partnership between Seacoast Media Group's readers and the community action programs in Rockingham and Strafford counties. Previous story:High heating costs, COVID-19 and cold winter increase need for aid Gift of Warmth funds are used to help people who might fall just outside of federal fuel assistance program guidelines, but who still need help. It is used to continue offering fuel assistance after state and federal allocations have been exhausted, to provide weatherization and to repair broken furnaces, or in Kim's case, to keep the electric lights and heat on. Last year, the Gift of Warmth campaign raised a record $78,400, bringing the 15-year total to $695,675. How to donate to Gift of Warmth in 2021 The way the Gift of Warmth program works is simple, and comes from the heart. Each week, Seacoast Media Group shares the story of one person or family that received help from the Rockingham or Strafford community programs. This allows readers to know the real needs of the real people their Gift of Warmth contributions, of whatever amount, help to address. Donations are gratefully accepted, and will be distributed among the two CAP programs for them to make a real difference in real lives. More:5 tips to weatherize your house with heating costs rising This year, we ask that checks donated to Gift of Warmth be made out directly to either the Rockingham Community Action Program or the Community Action Program of Strafford County. Please write "Gift of Warmth" in the check memo line to ensure the money goes for fuel assistance. Checks should be mailed to Gift of Warmth, Seacoast Media Group, 111 New Hampshire Ave., Portsmouth, NH, 03801. We will tally the checks, record the names of each week's contributors and then forward the checks on to the two county community action programs. Each Sunday throughout the campaign, Seacoast Media Group will list that week’s donors. Again, please make the checks out to either the Rockingham Community Action Program or the Community Action Partnership of Strafford County and write Gift of Warmth in the memo line. If you need help To apply for fuel assistance, call Rockingham Community Action at 431-2911. People experiencing any significant hardship or financial crisis can also call and they will be referred to the appropriate person. For more information, visit snhs.org. For Community Action Partnership of Strafford County, call 435-2500 or visit straffordcap.org. 