 Senate committee advances York River 'wild and scenic' designation with bipartisan vote Staff report A view of the York River, in this undated file photo, shows some of the marshy grassland that trims stretches of the waterway. WASHINGTON, D.C. – With a bipartisan vote Thursday, Nov. 18, a key U.S. Senate committee advanced efforts to designate the York River as part of the National Park System's "Wild and Scenic" Rivers program. Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, who chairs the Senate National Parks Subcommittee, announced the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee’s bipartisan passage of his legislation to add the York River to the program. The designation would protect the river and surrounding areas from development and provide federal funds to the region. The bill now heads to the Senate floor for full consideration. Earlier story:York River bid for 'wild and scenic' status goes before U.S. Senate subcommittee "The York River has long played an important role in communities across southern Maine, and is one of our state’s most outstanding natural resources," King said in a statement. "It’s critically important that local York communities can protect the river and watershed areas for future generations to come – and I’m committed to supporting their efforts.” A kayaker paddles along the York River in this undated file photo. King said Thursday's vote "is a testament to the dedication of the York community – who’ve worked tirelessly to secure the designation – and the remarkable nature of the river." Jennifer Hunter, York River Wild and Scenic Study Coordinator, celebrated the development. “We are incredibly happy to learn of today's legislative progress and know we are another step closer to achieving designation for York River,” Hunter said in a statement  “The river, its marsh system, and its watershed are directly linked to recreation, our economy, critical wildlife and marine habitats, and resilience to increasing climate-related stressors, all of which relate to community well-being," Hunter added. "Wild and Scenic River designation will enhance local efforts to maintain a healthy river ecosystem capable of sustaining important community values into the future.”  Earlier this year, King, along with Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and Reps. Chellie Pingree and Jared Golden, D-Maine, introduced the bipartisan, bicameral legislation to create the designation. This bill followed a three-year study – funded by legislation that King introduced in 2013 – conducted by local stakeholders which recommended the designation.  In 2018, the voters of York and Eliot overwhelmingly passed referendums to move forward with the designation, as did the town councils of Kittery and South Berwick. A 'Wild and Scenic" river designation would direct federal funding and technical assistance to the area, while still ensuring that decisions about the river’s health and future are made at the local level. The designation will also elevate the York River’s profile as a national destination, in addition to providing a local forum for the four watershed communities to collaboratively address long-term river stewardship needs. 