 Driver for state medical transport service charged with DUI in fatal crash Amy Russo Katherine Gregg The Providence Journal A driver in a fatal crash involving the state's nonemergency medical transportation service is facing seven charges, including DUI and driving without a license, Coventry police said Monday. Police identified the driver as 25-year-old Dauda Elegushi, who worked for Assured Transportation, a subcontractor of Medical Transportation Management, which provides Rhode Islanders rides to doctor's appointments. Police said they responded to the "serious two-car" crash at Main Street and Abbotts Crossing Road just before 2 p.m. on Nov. 27. A 77-year-old female passenger who had been riding with Elegushi later died from crash injuries, the police said.  More:Patient dies after crash involving state's medical transport service The governor's office said the woman, who was from Coventry, was being driven back from a dialysis appointment when the crash occurred. Alaina Macia, CEO of Medical Transportation Management, appears at a Rhode Island House Oversight Committee hearing in 2019. An incident report was not filed with the state until three days after the crash on Nov. 30. On Friday, MTM filed a second incident report saying it learned of the woman's death on Saturday. According to the second report, Elegushi was "not qualified, credentialed or an authorized driver under Assured Transportation’s contract with MTM." Elegushi, a Providence resident, is being charged with driving to endanger resulting in death, obstructing an officer in execution of duty and having alcohol in his vehicle, among other offenses. He will be arraigned on Wednesday at 9 a.m. State contract with MTM In a news conference Monday, McKee called the situation "disturbing." "I think that it has been a problematic contract on many terms," he said of the state's deal with MTM, which was made under former Gov. Gina Raimondo. McKee said his administration is "dealing with a contract we have not been happy with," adding, "This could accelerate into next steps." While the state is weighing its options, termination of MTM's contract is on the table. In a statement, Phil Stalboerger, MTM's vice president of public affairs, said the company is "conducting a thorough audit of the Rhode Island transportation companies in our network to discern whether other unapproved drivers were used to transport passengers." "We have notified all transportation companies of the audit and reiterated that MTM will take swift, punitive action for infractions or policy violations," he said. "We will cooperate with the Rhode Island State Police and Attorney General Neronha on their investigation into this tragic event and will work collaboratively with the State to ensure that our Rhode Island passengers are transported safely." 