 RI residents contract Jamestown Canyon Virus and West Nile Virus. Here's what we know. Jack Perry The Providence Journal The Rhode Island Department of Health has confirmed that two residents tested positive this fall for viruses spread by infected mosquitoes. A Washington County resident in their early 60s tested positive for West Nile Virus but was not hospitalized, the Health Department said. It was the second case of West Nile Virus in Rhode Island this year. Also, a Kent County resident tested positive for Jamestown Canyon Virus, but has been discharged from the hospital and is recovering, according to the Health Department. It was the first case of Jamestown Canyon Virus in Rhode Island since 2013. "Although we are no longer in mosquito season in Rhode Island, these recently confirmed cases of JCV and WNV are a reminder that a few simple precautions can help you stay healthy and safe when you are outdoors spending quality time with family and friends," Health Director Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott said. More:RI reports first human case of West Nile virus since 2018 . What is West Nile Virus The person who tested positive for West Nile Virus started experiencing symptoms in the first week of September. Tests were submitted to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in October. More:West Nile Virus found in mosquito in RI for first time this summer What are the symptoms of West Nile Virus? Symptoms of West Nile Virus include fever, headache, body aches, nausea, vomiting, and sometimes swollen lymph glands or a skin rash. What is Jamestown Canyon Virus? The person with Jamestown Canyon Virus started having symptoms in the middle of September, and tests with submitted to the CDC in October. What are the symptoms of Jamestown Canyon Virus? Symptoms of Jamestown Canyon Virus can include fever, muscle aches, headaches, and fatigue. In rare cases it can cause more serious central nervous system disease, including meningitis or encephalitis. Insects:How climate change will bring more pests and disease to New England For more information on mosquito-borne illnesses in RI For more information on mosquito-borne illnesses, go to the Health Department's website.  More information on Jamestown Canyon Virus and West Nile Virus is available on the CDC's website. jperry@providencejournal.com (401) 277-7614 On Twitter: @jgregoryperry 