Skip to content SearchDecember 6th, 2021 RETURN POLICY PRIVACY POLICY AD RATES CONTACT US Barton Chronicle Newspaper - Log in to read current news & events Home Obituaries ObituariesMORE ARTICLES616 articles Property Transfers Advertise Submit Classifieds Submit Print Ad Classifieds ... Online Edition Kingdom Calendar of Weekly Events Subscribe Print Subscription Create Annual Online Subscription Create Short Term Online Subscription Contact Us What’s New? Crime & Police Reports Politics State News Chronicle staff bios Reviews ReviewsMORE ARTICLES80 articles MENUBarton Chronicle Newspaper - Log in to read current news & events What are you looking for? EDITOR'S PICKS Syrup re­lease no prob­lem here Published 5 days agoTRACY DAVIS PIERCE• Bookmarks:109 Smaller maple trees could be used to produce syrup with a new system being researched in Vermont. Photo by Bethany M. Dunbar     by Joseph Gresser A re­cent re­port on Na­tional Pub­lic Ra­dio sug­gests the Que­bec Maple Syrup Pro­duc­ers just dumped a large amount of syrup on the world mar­ket.  While the or­ga­ni­za­tion, which main­tains a strate­gic re­serve of the sweet stuff, has re­leased about half of its stock­pile, David Mar­vin of But­ter­nut Farms in John­son, says the or­ga­ni­za­tion started mak­ing its move soon af­ter see­ing last year’s crop was poor due to a short sea­son. Canada makes about 70 per­cent of the world’s maple syrup and the or­ga­ni­za­tion main­tains its stock­pile to pro­tect farm­ers and con­sumers from ma­jor price swings which could ei­ther leave pro­duc­ers with­out a profit if prices drop or drive con­sumers away if they rise too high. …this story and more in the full edi­tion of this week’s pa­per. Sub­scribe now to ac­cess our e-ver­sion or to have it de­liv­ered to your home weekly by se­lect­ing a link be­low: An­nual on­line sub­scrip­tion Short-term on­line sub­scrip­tion Print sub­scrip­tion (To find a par­tic­u­lar ar­ti­cle, search for the cor­re­spond­ing edi­tion of the news­pa­per)   Share 109 recommended0 shares ABOUT The weekly journal of Orleans County, VT, since 1974. Return Policy Privacy Policy Ad Rates Contact Us Print Subscriptions Barton Chronicle Newspaper - Log in to read current news & events © 2021. the Chronicle, Inc. All rights reserved. 