The Valley Reporter	   Donate with PayPal button  Lisa Loomis LOCAL NEWS December 6, 2021 Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year Wait Staff on Wheels, the local service to deliver takeout food to Valley residents which launched last year at Christmas will return this year. Advertisement   The service was launched last year to do several things. First, it provided some work for wait staff whose regular gigs were canceled or closed down. Secondly, it offered a way for local restaurants to get their food to customers, helping those businesses and finally, it allowed residents and visitors a way to have local food delivered to them, something that has not been available since Bongiorno’s Pizzeria on Route 17 closed several years ago. Jenna Rossbach, Moretown, is the founder of Wait Staff on Wheels (WOW). She said the service will be back offering delivery options for Fridays and Saturdays, starting December 17. She said that many of the restaurants that WOW partners with will be reopening the week prior. “We want to let them reopen and get a week of service under their belts before we start adding to the pile,” she said. “I don’t have everyone who drove last year back. Last year we had six to seven drivers. Some have gone back to their restaurant jobs and the changing restaurant landscape is changing most restaurants we partnered with,” she said.   Rossbach said it may be a challenge to find drivers, just as restaurants and ski areas are facing employment challenge. She said the fees from last year might be increased in recognition of rising gas prices. WOW doesn’t make money per se. All the funds paid by customers go to the drivers who also receive tips. The drivers tip the dispatch person who receives orders via the website and texts pickup and delivery instructions to the drivers. Rossbach said that last year WOW found that weekend nights were the busiest and weeknights, even during holiday day weeks weren’t very busy. This year the service will stick to the weekend, including Christmas weekend, but will be open on New Year’s Eve. “I don’t anticipate any less desire on the part of the customers to have their food delivered. All of our regular customers from last year used us for different reasons. They might have been quarantining or didn’t want to drive in the snow. But they’re all psyched to have us back. We knew last year that, pandemic or not, this is something people are willing to pay for. We will do a little more paid advertising this year and make sure we have info at hotels and restaurants and the ski areas,” she said. You might also like PREVNEXT slide 8 to 10 of 6 MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 ... 2021 Recap 2021 Recap ... Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board ... Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year ... Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony  Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony ... Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District ... MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 ...   2021 Recap 2021 Recap ...   Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board ...   Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year ...   Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony  Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony ...   Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District ...   MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 ...   2021 Recap 2021 Recap ... Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board Mad River Valley Arts appoints Jane Macan as president of the board ... Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year Wait Staff on Wheels returns for second year ... Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony  Harwood NHS chapter inducts new members in 26th annual ceremony ... Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District Amy Tomasso joins Mad River Valley Planning District ... MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 MRV Earn-Your-Turns Roundtable set for December 9 ... 2021 Recap 2021 Recap ... You might also like - food PREVNEXT slide 7 to 9 of 9 Yogurt herb marinated chicken Yogurt herb marinated chicken ... Blistered tomatoes and basil Blistered tomatoes and basil ... Summer pea soup Summer pea soup ... Cauliflower and mint Cauliflower and mint ... Classic wedge salad Classic wedge salad ... Turmeric black pepper chicken Turmeric black pepper chicken ...   Squash, kale, garbanzo curry Squash, kale, garbanzo curry ...   Mussels with sausage and white beans Mussels with sausage and white beans ...   Tonnato sauce Tonnato sauce ...   Yogurt herb marinated chicken Yogurt herb marinated chicken ...   Blistered tomatoes and basil Blistered tomatoes and basil ...   Summer pea soup Summer pea soup ...   Cauliflower and mint Cauliflower and mint ...   Classic wedge salad Classic wedge salad ...   Turmeric black pepper chicken Turmeric black pepper chicken ...   Squash, kale, garbanzo curry Squash, kale, garbanzo curry ... Mussels with sausage and white beans Mussels with sausage and white beans ... Tonnato sauce Tonnato sauce ... Yogurt herb marinated chicken Yogurt herb marinated chicken ... Blistered tomatoes and basil Blistered tomatoes and basil ... Summer pea soup Summer pea soup ...  Wait Staff on Wheels Copyright The Valley Reporter * P.O. Box 119 Waitsfield, VT 05673 * 802-496-3928 