Ozark family spreads holiday cheer all year with Christmas-themed Airbnb Abbi Ross Fort Smith Times Record Nestled in a Christmas tree farm around 40 minutes from Fort Smith is a cabin that looks like it was pulled straight from a Hallmark movie.  All year long, the Christmas Cabin on the Christmas Tree Lane farm in Ozark is a flurry of holiday cheer. The three-bedroom, two-bath cabin is covered in holiday-inspired decor with lights hanging from most surfaces — making it the perfect spot to celebrate the most wonderful time of the year, no matter the month.  That spirit is what the Lane family wanted when they decided to open the cabin to the public.  “We try to make it as festive as people can stand,” said Jim Lane, who owns the farm and cabin with his wife Karen.  The Lane family started their Christmas tree farm in 1990 and originally had a little shed they did business from. When the family decided they wanted a bigger space in the early 2000s, Lane knew he wanted to eventually rent it out.  The Christmas Cabin brings the holiday spirit all year long and is covered in seasonal decorations and lights. But the family realized they would have to kick people out during the holiday season to do work for the farm in the cabin, and so they never did.  In 2018 the Lanes learned about platforms like Airbnb and VRBO, which specialize in short-term rentals, and realized it was a perfect fit.  "It took off,” Lane said. “It really has done well and we stay pretty much booked year-round.”  Maria Lopez, a wallpaper specialist from Dallas, first stayed at the Christmas Cabin in September for a work trip — but she already has a second trip lined up for a vacation in January.   “The Christmas spirit in every corner of the cabin is amazing,” Lopez said.  One of the three bedrooms in the Christmas Cabin. She was shocked when a local client recommended the cabin while looking for places to stay on a work trip.  “I said ‘Christmas cabin? It’s September,’” Lopez said.  The recommendation was one of the best she has received.  The Lanes are dedicated to making sure their guests enjoy a stay at their holiday haven.  “It’s got a lot of love in it,” Lane said.  They started building the cabin in 2005, tearing down old barns and other things to help give it a rustic feel. Building it was not always easy and the Lanes worked on it when they had the time and money, which were not always simultaneous.  The effort put into the cabin has been well worth it though.  “We have a guest book, well now we’re on like our third guest book, and sometimes what they say just about makes us cry,” Lane said. “It means a lot to people when they get here and they have some quietness and solitude and can enjoy the Christmas feeling year-round.”  The cost of a night at the cabin varies on time booked and is currently listed at $200 per night on AirBnb though the price changes based on specific dates. While it varies from year to year, the cabin is usually unavailable from mid-November to the Sunday before Christmas so the Lanes can use it to sell merchandise from and for field trips for local school kids during the peak tree buying season.  Lane said the family sees around 1,000 kids a year stop by the farm on field trips.   Christmas Tree Lane is located at 8102 AR-23 in Ozark. While the cabin is not open ro renters from mid-November to around Christmas, visitors can stop by the farm to see the cabin, buy a tree or snag some merchandise. Until Dec. 19, Christmas Tree Lane is open with full service from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays and 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. on Sundays.   The farm will have limited services from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. Tuesday through Friday from Nov. 30 to Dec. 17. They are closed on Mondays. 