Camden Fairview boys' get their first win of the season over Hope by Michael Hanich | December 1, 2021 at 12:24 p.m. Photo By: Michael Hanich Camden Fairview senior forward Jalen Danridge attacks the basket for a layup against Hope. It has been a slow start for the Camden Fairview Cardinals boys' basketball team as they have been limited in games played and waiting for players to return from the football season. On Tuesday night, the Cardinals were set to host the Hope Bobcats, their first game since their 63-53 loss to Hope on the road on Nov. 16. Camden Fairview missed some key players a few weeks ago, as some were still participating with the conference championship-winning football team in the playoffs. The Cardinals took on a determined and efficient Bobcats team Tuesday in a thrilling 55-52 win at home with a full team. This was the first game back for senior guard Brandon Copeland, senior guard/forward Michael Suell and senior forward Ja'Toney McGhee. In the first quarter, the Bobcats made their presence known in the paint on both sides of the court. They pushed Camden Fairview out to the wing as their game plan was to take some forced shots from deep. Suell and senior forward Jalen Danridge found ways to attack the basket, but the Bobcats had more efficient scoring opportunities in the first quarter. Hope finished the first quarter with the 14-12 lead over Camden Fairview. The Cardinals needed to find ways to contend for rebounds and points in the paint. That is when they put in Ja'Toney McGhee, and his size, superior athleticism and aggressiveness overpowered the Bobcats on offense and defense. His constant rebounding helped set up several second-chance points starting in the second quarter. This was also when the Cardinals found ways of getting to the free-throw line to get easy points, rack up fouls on the Bobcats and kill their momentum. The Cardinals went into halftime with a 26-22 lead over the Bobcats. With a bigger lead in the third quarter, the Cardinals tried to stretch out their scoring opportunities by taking more three-point shots. Unfortunately for the Cardinals, most of those shots were not going in. With 3:22 left in the third quarter, the Cardinals were 2-for-8 from the three-point arc. Camden Fairview continued to contest every shot of the Bobcats and were able to hold Hope to 11 points in the third quarter. The Cardinals evened out the scoring in the third quarter 11-11 and took a 37-33 lead into the fourth quarter. The Bobcats found a new mindset and attack strategy coming out of the break, outscoring the Cardinals 5-1 only 56 seconds into the fourth quarter to tie the game 38-38. The Cardinals did not lose patience, instead sticking to their game plan of attacking the basket for a layup and going for second-chance points. They found a huge edge late in the game as they forced two of Hope's star players to foul out. Their lack of impact late in the game was enough to keep Hope from creating a late comeback as Camden Fairview held on for their first win of the season and revenge against the Bobcats. Dandridge led the team in points scored with 11, shooting 5-for-10 field goal attempts while also accounting for three steals and a block. Copeland was an efficient orchestrator of the Cardinals' offense as he accounted for six points and helped set up several selection shots for his teammates. Suell accounted for six points, while forward De'Kerrion Kendricks accounted for seven points. Junior guard Traveon King scored eight points as an efficient scorer driving to the basket. Toney was a monster in the paint on both ends of the court as he accounted for four points, ten rebounds, one steal and one block. Guard Jy'Merion Hopson accounted for 11 points (a team-high). Altogether, King, McGhee and Hopson contributed 23 points off the bench. The Cardinals (1-1) will prepare for their next game in the Fordyce Tournament as they take on the Junction City Dragons (1-0) today.