‘Business Report’ founder Rolfe McCollister retires after 40 years; Julio Melara acquiring Baton Rouge multimedia publishing company By Business Report Staff -November 29, 2021 Baton Rouge McCollister Rolfe McCollister Jr., who founded Baton Rouge Business Report with his late father in 1982, has announced his retirement from the 40-year-old multimedia company that publishes multiple award-winning brands and produces numerous events. Julio Melara, who joined as a partner 25 years ago and was named CEO in 2016, will own 100% of Louisiana Business Inc., effective Dec. 31. Besides Business Report, the company also produces 225 magazine, inRegister, Daily Report, 10/12 Industry Report and numerous other niche publications, websites, newsletters and local events. The company also operates the Business Report Leadership Academy, an exclusive program for advancing professionals and entrepreneurs as well as Studio E, a full-service marketing firm. Last year, LBI launched 21st Century Business Forum, a series broadcast in major markets across the country that provides insight, ideas and inspiration from the country’s top business and thought leaders to entrepreneurs, small business owners and executives as they face unprecedented change in the marketplace. “As I reflect on our company’s history and impact in Baton Rouge, I am very grateful for the community support and extraordinarily proud of what our talented team has accomplished. God has blessed me and my family and I am looking forward to time with them. From our beginnings in September 1982, we have enjoyed telling the stories of the people and companies of the Capital Region while also covering the issues that matter to our community,” said McCollister, who will now have the title of chairman emeritus while continuing to write his monthly column in Business Report. “So many have shared with us the impact that our publications have had on them, their companies, their organizations and our community. We love Baton Rouge and that’s always been our corporate vision: ‘A company of excellence, innovation and impact every day.’” Rolfe McCollister Julio Melara is acquiring Louisiana Business Inc. Melara, who will assume the role of chairman and publisher of Business Report while remaining publisher of 225 magazine, launched the Business Report Leadership Academy and co-founded Studio E and the 21st Century Business Forum. The LBI executive is a sought-after national speaker and resource in business and professional circles, and is the author of several books. “I look forward to building on our foundation of 40 years and taking us into the future with the innovation that is so much a part of our DNA,” Melara said. “I am more committed than ever to this company’s core values of excellence, integrity, innovation, being people focused and giving back to the community that supports us.” Melara has named to his leadership team Editorial Director Penny Font, who will assume the role of vice president.