Rosepine’s historic season ends in quarterfinals Published 10:26 am Saturday, November 27, 2021 By Staff Reports The Rosepine duo of Braden Trull (44) and Michael Woods combine on a tackle of a Many back during action last Friday in the quarterfinals of the Class 2A playoffs, a game which the top-ranked Tigers downed the Eagles, 50-12. (Special to the Beauregard News) By Daniel Green MANY — The top-ranked Many Tigers definitely lived up to its billing. Many (12-1) forced three turnovers, while running backs London Williams and Jeremiah James both eclipsed the century mark as the Tigers downed the No. 8 Rosepine Eagles at John W. Curtis Stadium in the Class 2A quarterfinals, 50-12. Rosepine finished its season with a record of 11-2, having made the state quarterfinals in football for the first time in program history. “Our program has stepped to the next level and what a great, historical season we have had at Rosepine,” Eagle head coach Brad Ducote said. “These great seniors have sure left their mark on the program.” It appeared as if Rosepine had gained some early momentum when Williams lost the football near midfield. However, Williams was ruled down by contact. On the ensuing play, James broke loose on a 47-yard TD run. The two-point conversion failed, leaving the score, 6-0. Rosepine went three-and-out on its first possession and had to punt. The ensuing snap went over the head of Aiden Cline and Many got the ball at the Rosepine 5. Two plays later, Many was up, 14-0, thanks to a 2-yard TD run by James and a two-point conversion from Tackett Curtis. Rosepine’s next possession ended when Ethan Frey was intercepted by Jayvion Smart, who returned the ball 31 yards for the touchdown. Williams added the conversion run for a 22-0 lead with 7:48 still to go in the first quarter. Many forced a fumble from Grant Ducote and on the ensuing play, Curtis fired a 23-yard TD pass to Jack DeVille. Williams added the two-pointer for a 30-0 lead. “If things could go wrong, it went wrong the first four and half minutes of the fourth quarter,” Coach Ducote said. “We dug ourselves a big hole and couldn’t come out of it.” Rosepine battled back and got on the board with a 33-yard TD pass from Frey to Braden Trull with 5:14 to go in the first quarter, making the score, 30-6. The two teams exchanged touchdowns in the second period as Frey connected with Isaiah Stinson on a 12-yard TD pass, while Williams scored on a 20-yard TD scamper for a 36-12 halftime lead. “Take away that first four and a half minutes, this game could have had a very different look,” Ducote said. “But I wouldn’t trade my guys for anything.” Williams and James each scored a TD in the second half to account for the final score. Williams finished with 132 yards on 22 carries with two TDs, while James had 13 carries for 107 yards and three scores. In all, Many had 274 yards rushing and 332 total yards. Frey was 7-of-21 passing for 126 yards and two TD with two interceptions. Rosepine had a total of 137 yards of offense as Many’s defense limited the Eagle running game to 11 yards on 28 attempts.