Home News Sports Opinion Pasatiempo Obituaries Coronavirus Life Classifieds Real Estate Jobs Legals Toggle navigation MENU Advertisement Next Up NEXT UP Empty Stocking Fund, Dec. 6, 2021 The Empty Stocking Fund, a 40-year-old project of The New Mexican, assists hundr… Empty Stocking Fund, Dec. 7, 2021 The New Mexican Dec 6, 2021 Updated 25 min ago  0 Home News Empty Stocking Fund Facebook Twitter Email Print Save The Empty Stocking Fund is a 40-year-old project of The New Mexican. Each year, hundreds of people receive aid from the fund during the holiday season to help cover rent payments, medical bills, utility costs, car repairs, home improvements and other needs. Who it helps: Applicants, who must live within 50 miles of Santa Fe and must provide documents that provide proof of their identity, are considered without regard to race, age, ethnicity, gender identity or sexual orientation. The process for applying has closed; The New Mexican received nearly 800 applications. How it works: Applications for funding are carefully vetted. Members of the Empty Stocking Committee review requests, meet with each qualifying applicant to examine records of outstanding bills or other needs and verify the applicant’s income. If a request is approved, the committee sends a check directly to the service supplier. The cap for most requests is $1,000 but can be as much as $2,500 per household, depending on the need. 2021 goal: $275,000 This holiday charity project, which began in 1981, is jointly administered by the Santa Fe Community Foundation, Enterprise Bank and Trust, the Salvation Army, Presbyterian Medical Services, The Life Link, Habitat for Humanity, Esperanza Shelter, Youth Shelters and Family Services and a private individual. To donate: Make your tax-deductible donation online at santafenewmexican.com/empty_stocking or mail a check to The New Mexican’s Empty Stocking Fund c/o the Santa Fe Community Foundation, P.O. Box 1827, Santa Fe, NM 87504-1827. Donors can request to remain anonymous. If you can provide a service such as roofing or home repairs, contact Habitat for Humanity at repairs@santafehabitat.org. If you can contribute food, clothing, toys, housewares, furniture, firewood or other items or services, call the Salvation Army at 505-988-8054. Donations Karen Schmidt: $250 Kathi and Gene Schofield: $1,000 Jack and Peggy Seigel: $250 John Shaffer: $10 Betsy and Tom Shillinglaw: $250 Ken and Martha Simonsen: $150 John and Roberta Simpson: $200 Sarah Sisk: $30 Smidinger Trust: $500 Leslie K. Smith: $1,500 Thomas and Hendrika Spier: $250 Total: $4,390 Cumulative total: $76,469.01 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content. Advertisement MOST POPULAR  Articles ‘Loved to death’: A clash over fragile Northern New Mexico badlands Two children killed in Chimayó house fire; cause unknown Details emerge in Santa Fe Starbucks robbery, shooting during high-speed chase Boutique hotel planned next to Loretto Chapel downtown Rio Arriba County Sheriff sentenced to 3 years, taken into custody Seeing something unusual in the sky? Here's an explanation Santa Fe woman says she and dog were attacked by pit bulls Jury finds Rio Arriba County sheriff guilty of two felonies Outgoing Santa Fe city manager to get $35,000 vacation time payout Estancia mayor says rule on being armed at meetings misinterpreted COLUMNISTS & BLOGS Tributes to three sailors 80 years after Pearl Harbor RINGSIDE SEAT Tributes to three sailors 80 years after Pearl Harbor To make a real difference, teachers need time, not just money PHILL CASAUS To make a real difference, teachers need time, not just money Saga of the Land Use Department takes another twist BUILDING SANTA FE Saga of the Land Use Department takes another twist Enslavement of Natives is a sad truth of New Mexico's past HISTORY MATTERS Enslavement of Natives is a sad truth of New Mexico's past SECTIONS News Sports Opinion Pasatiempo Magazines Life Multimedia Commenting FAQ SERVICES Place Classified Ad Subscription Services Submission Forms Featured Ads Featured Ads Reprints Open House Listings Open House Re-Prints Commercial Printing Ad Rates Work at The New Mexican CONTACT INFORMATION santafenewmexican.com 202 E. Marcy St. Santa Fe, NM 87501 Phone: 505-983-3303 Email: webeditor@sfnewmexican.com FOLLOW US      Copyright © 2021 The Santa Fe New Mexican | Terms of Use Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 