Login News Puzzles & Comics COVID-19 News Sports Opinion McAlester Living Magazine Community Classifieds E-Paper App Celebrations Obituaries Public Notices Contact Us Subscribe Shop Toggle navigation Next Up NEXT UP Governor supports plans for Oklahoma prison rodeo’s return	 Governor supports plans for Oklahoma prison rodeo’s return Oklahoma’s governor said he wants to bring back what was onc… ALERT FEATURED TOPICAL Federal appeals court denies Oklahoma death row inmate's stay request By Adrian O'Hanlon III | CNHI Oklahoma 2 min ago  Stouffer Bigler Stouffer II      The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday denied Oklahoma death row inmate Bigler Stouffer II an emergency motion for a stay of execution. Stouffer, 79, who was convicted of the 1985 fatal shooting of Oklahoma teacher Linda Reaves, is scheduled to die by lethal injection at 10 a.m. Thursday at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester. Defense attorneys have challenged the effectiveness of midazolam — the first of Oklahoma’s three-drug cocktail used in lethal injections. Appellate judges wrote Stouffer didn't address key factors in his appeal. "Mr. Stouffer has failed to establish a threat that he will be irreparably harmed by a violation of his Eighth Amendment rights if he is executed using Oklahoma's three-drug protocol, including midazolam," judges wrote. Stouffer has said he's innocent in the attack that left Reaves dead and her boyfriend Doug Ivens seriously wounded. Stouffer's first conviction was overturned before he was convicted and sentenced to death in 2003.. Prosecutors said Stouffer went to Ivens' home to borrow his gun before he fatally shot Reaves and wounded Ivens. They said Stouffer was dating Ivens' ex-wife and that he was trying to get access to Ivens’ $2 million life insurance policy. Stouffer said at his parole board hearing that Reaves was dead when he arrived and Ivens was shot as they struggled over the gun. Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt denied clemency to Stouffer on Friday, despite a 3-2 recommendation from the state’s Pardon and Parole Board to commute his sentence to life in prison without parole because of concerns some board members had following problems with recent executions. John O'Connor, the state's attorney general, said he supports Stitt's decision to deny clemency. “Stouffer’s brutal and senseless crime took the life of Linda Reaves and shattered the lives of Doug Ivens and their families," O'Connor said in a statement. “Now, after 36 years, justice will finally be served." Don Heath, chair of the Oklahoma Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, applauded the parole board's recommendation and called on the governor to stay executions until a federal judge decides whether Oklahoma's execution protocol constitutes cruel and unusual punishment. Some parole board members questioned whether Oklahoma could conduct humane executions following its lethal injection of John Grant — who vomited and convulsed several times while being put to death in October. Grant, convicted of killing a prison cafeteria worker, became Oklahoma’s first execution since its hiatus in 2015 after scrutiny stemming from a series of problematic lethal injections. Clayton Lockett, convicted in 2000 of murder and several other charges, writhed in agony for about 43 minutes on a gurney before his 2014 lethal injection. A state investigation later found the IV in Lockett’s groin came loose and prolonged his death. The state used potassium acetate instead of potassium chloride — which wasn't approved in protocols at that time — in its 2015 execution of Charles Warner, who was convicted in the rape and murder of an infant.. Oklahoma’s then-general counsel, Steve Mullins, told prison officials to proceed using the same mixture used in Warner’s execution for the lethal injection of death row inmate Richard Glossip — but then-Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin intervened by issuing a stay. The state uses midazolam to first render the inmate unconscious, then vecuronium bromide as a muscle relaxant, and finally potassium chloride to stop the heart. Oklahoma resumed lethal injections in October using the same three-drug combination used in Lockett’s 2014 execution. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Adrian O'Hanlon III at aohanlon@mcalesternews.com Support local journalism. We are making critical coverage of the coronavirus available for free. Please consider subscribing so we can continue to bring you the latest news and information on this developing story. Tags Bigler Stouffer Ii Lethal Injection Execution Criminal Law Law Crime Doug Ivens Oklahoma Clayton Lockett Board Member TRENDING VIDEO RECOMMENDED FOR YOU NEWSPAPER ADS THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS OBITUARIES Ratliff, Alice Alice Louise Ratliff, 90, of Linwood, passed away Sunday, Dec. 5. Graveside funeral services will be held on Thursday, Dec. 9, at 1:00 p.m. at the Elmwood Cemetery Pavilion. Henson, Emmitt Henson, Emmitt Brown, Woodrow Brown, Woodrow Enoch, Linda Enoch, Linda Gibson, Cathleen Gibson, Cathleen MOST POPULAR  Articles Shops at McAlester obtains restraining order; work proceeding Governor supports plans for Oklahoma prison rodeo’s return LIVE BLOG: Collinsville 42, McAlester 35, final TITLE GAME: Collinsville edges McAlester in state championship Special team to participate in Country Christmas Parade HS FOOTBALL: McAlester's McCarty rushes into record books — again GAMEDAY: McAlester looking to cap historic season in state final 5 THINGS TO KNOW: How to buy tickets for the OSSAA football state title games 5 THINGS TO KNOW: What do I need to know about the Downtown Christmas Parade? 5 THINGS TO KNOW: OSSAA fan policies at state football championships First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. CONTACT INFORMATION mcalesternews.com 500 S. Second St. McAlester, OK 74501 Phone: 918-423-1700 Email: web@mcalesternews.com SERVICES About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Personnel Subscriber Services Rack Locations Submission Forms California Privacy Policy California Collection Notice Do Not Sell My Info SECTIONS News Comics Puzzles Sports Community Opinion Obituaries Photos Video Gallery Weather © Copyright 2021 McAlester News-Capital, 500 S. Second St. McAlester, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. ×  Already a subscriber? Activate digital access.