  Cherokee Observer	 Home Door Knife Dorm Welding Tools Home→Blog→How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing PEX pipe is a popular choice for residential plumbing because it’s flexible and easy to install. PEX pipe is made from cross-linked polyethylene. But every winter, PEX pipe owners worry about their pipes freezing. The cold water running through the pipes during the winter months will actually freeze. And form ice inside of your pipes, which can cause a lot of damage if it isn't dealt with quickly. According to plexplumberblog, it is necessary to take precautions in order to avoid PEX pipes freezing. Therefore, we discuss how to prevent PEX pipe from freezing that can prove helpful for you. When Do PEX Pipes Freeze? The temperature range for PEX plumbing is up to 180 degrees Fahrenheit. PEX pipes can freeze during extremely cold winter. When Do PEX Pipes Freeze When the water running through them drops on 20 degrees Fahrenheit, your pipes can freeze. Thus, the PEX piping in your home needs to receive extra protection during winter. How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing - Some Solutions If you see any ice forming inside of your pipes or if your water is freezing in the outdoor lines, you should immediately do something about it. At this point, there are several things to do: How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing 1. Consider Insulating Your Pipes Insulating your PEX pipe is the most effective and permanent solution for preventing PEX pipes from freezing. The process of insulating your pipes involves wrapping them in tubes. For insulating your PEX pipe, you can use special foam insulation products. These are easy to install, and they can help you prevent PEX pipe from freezing. Consider Insulating Your Pipes 2. Keep Your Rooms Warm Another thing you can do is keep your rooms warm. Just make sure the temperature doesn’t drop below 55 degrees. Try to maintain a temperature above 55° in your house by using a thermostat. 3. Consider Installing a Freeze-Proof Sillcock A freeze-proof sillcock is another solution for preventing PEX pipe from freezing. These sillcocks can be installed indoors and outdoors.  And, they work by replacing the current exterior faucets on your house. a Freeze-Proof Sillcock They help to regulate the water pressure in your lines, which is important for preventing frozen PEX pipes. 4. Drip Your Indoor Faucets Therefore, you should also consider dripping your indoor faucets because this can make a significant difference. The water is continuously flowing through the faucet, which prevents it from freezing. But make sure you don’t leave it dripping overnight because this can waste your water. 5. Shut-off Water to Unused Taps Another option is to shut off the water supply to any rooms you aren't using.  This will prevent them from freezing because there won’t be any water running through those pipes.  Also, make sure that the faucets in those rooms are dripping as well. Shut-off Water to Unused Taps 6. Consider PEX Pipe Heat Tape PEX pipe heat tape can also be used to prevent PEX pipe from freezing. It is an electrical system that uses low-voltage wires to provide heat for your plumbing.  You can install it around the areas where your pipes are located. Consider PEX Pipe Heat Tape How to Thaw Frozen PEX Pipes In the event that your PEX pipes are already frozen, there are also some things you can do.  Here are the step-by-step instructions you can follow to thaw out your frozen PEX pipes: How to Thaw Frozen PEX Pipes Step 01: Shut Off the Water Supply For safety reasons, it is very important that you shut off the water supply before attempting to thaw out your pipes.  If there is a fire in the process or if something goes wrong, you don’t want water spilling everywhere. Shut Off the Water Supply Step 02: Use Hot Air to Thaw the Frozen Pipe You can use a blow dryer to thaw a frozen PEX pipe.  A blow dryer works well because it emits hot air that can melt the ice. However, it is important that you do not use a propane torch or something similar for this purpose as these devices generate very high temperatures. Step 03: Check the Pipe Finally, you need to verify that the frozen pipe is thawing. If there is still ice in the pipe after this procedure, repeat it until the ice is gone. Check the Pipe Conclusion: You now understand the importance of preventing PEX pipes from freezing. Furthermore, you also know how to prevent PEX pipe from freezing and what steps you should take to prevent this from occurring. If this does happen to you, just follow these simple methods, and your pipe will be free of ice soon. Cherokee Observer Team	November 27, 2021	Blog Related Posts Welding Gas Cylinder Sizes: What Size For MIG Or TIG Welding? 31 Small Welding Projects From Scrap – Cherokee Observer 21 Horseshoe Welding Project Ideas – Beginner Friendly Welding vs. Soldering vs. Brazing – Which Is Stronger Can You Weld Door Hinges? How to Do It Right? Are Welding Gloves Heat Resistant? How It Protects You? Are Garage Door Sensors Universal? How It Works? AC vs DC Welding: Differences, Pros, and Cons Cherokee Observer Team   We are a team of professionals who decided to go all-in for home products. Each and everyone in our team is an expert in their own right. And we are not leaving this post as we will be back with more updates and with accurate information as time progresses and the need arises. Click Here to Leave a Comment Below0 comments Leave a Reply: Name* Email* Website  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.   ←Previous post RECENT ARTICLES How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing Best Fillet Knife for Catfish – Electric and Manual 10 Best Pegboard for Garage in 2021 – Reviews and Guide 10 Best Shrimp Deveiner and Peeler Reviews 2021 10 Best Japanese Fillet Knives in 2021 – Reviews & Guide 10 Best Garage Track System Reviews | Buying Guide 2021 10 Best Electric Fillet Knife for Crappie and Panfish 15 Best Henckels Knife Sets Reviews in 2021 – Buying Guide 10 Best Garage Surge Protector Reviews | Buying Guide 2021 10 Best Garage Floor Cleaners – Concrete, Cement, Tiles, ETC POPULAR ARTICLES How to Prevent PEX Pipe from Freezing Best Fillet Knife for Catfish – Electric and Manual 10 Best Pegboard for Garage in 2021 – Reviews and Guide 10 Best Shrimp Deveiner and Peeler Reviews 2021 10 Best Japanese Fillet Knives in 2021 – Reviews & Guide RELATED ARTICLES Welding Gas Cylinder Sizes: What Size For MIG Or TIG Welding? 31 Small Welding Projects From Scrap – Cherokee Observer 21 Horseshoe Welding Project Ideas – Beginner Friendly Welding vs. Soldering vs. Brazing – Which Is Stronger Can You Weld Door Hinges? How to Do It Right? Cherokeeobserver.org is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Amazon, the Amazon logo, AmazonSupply, and the AmazonSupply logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. About Contact Affiliate Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright 2021 by Cherokee Observer.