Login Home Place an Ad Get App Olympics Puzzles & Comics Text Alerts Email Newsletter Obituaries Public Notices Contact Us Subscribe Celebrations News Sports Community Opinion Classifieds Shop Best of Enid Contest Toggle navigation Next Up NEXT UP Dominican Republic expels, mistreats Haitians, activists say	 Dominican Republic expels, mistreats Haitians, activists say DAJABON, Dominican Republic (AP) — Bien-Aimé St. Clair frown… AP FEATURED Bob Dole to lie in state at Capitol as nation honors senator The Associated Press 3 hrs ago  1 of 2      WASHINGTON — Sen. Bob Dole's casket will lie in state in the U.S. Capitol on Thursday as congressional leaders honor the former Republican presidential candidate and World War II veteran who served in Congress for 36 years. Dole died Sunday at the age of 98. He was a leader known for his caustic wit, which he often turned on himself but didn’t hesitate to turn on others, too. He shaped tax and foreign policy and worked vigorously to help the disabled, enshrining protections against discrimination in employment, education and public services in the Americans with Disabilities Act. The U.S. Capitol has been considered the most suitable place for the nation to pay final tribute to its most eminent citizens by having their remains lie in state. Dole, from Kansas, won the Republican nomination in 1996, but was defeated when President Bill Clinton won a second term. He was also 1976 GOP vice presidential candidate on the losing ticket with President Gerald Ford. Throughout his political career, he carried the mark of war. Charging a German position in northern Italy in 1945, Dole was hit by a shell fragment that crushed two vertebrae and paralyzed his arms and legs. The young Army platoon leader spent three years recovering in a hospital and never regained use of his right hand. Support local journalism. We are making critical coverage of the coronavirus available for free. Please consider subscribing so we can continue to bring you the latest news and information on this developing story. Click for the latest, full-access Enid News & Eagle headlines | Text Alerts | app downloads Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission. React to this story: ALERT Click here for the ENE app Mar 12, 2016 ALERT Sign up for ENE text alerts Mar 12, 2016 ALERT Sign up for ENE news email alerts Mar 12, 2016 TRENDING VIDEO Associated Press Associated Press Author email RECOMMENDED FOR YOU NEWSPAPER ADS THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS OBITUARIES Reim, Roylyn Funeral services will be 10:00 a.m. Friday, December 10, 2021, at Central Assembly of God. Burial follows in Memorial Park Cemetery. Visitation is 5:00 to 6:00 p.m. Thursday at Anderson-Burris Funeral Home. Online guestbook is at www.andersonburris.com. STEPHENSON, Deborah Dec 10, 1950 - Dec 5, 2021 STEPHENSON, Deborah Dec 10, 1950 - Dec 5, 2021 Williams, Theleta Celebration of Life service for Theleta M. Williams, age 72, of Marshall, will be 10:00 a.m. Friday, December 10, 2021, at Ladusau-Evans Chapel. Burial will follow in the Douglas Cemetery under the direction of Ladusau-Evans Funeral Home. BOHLER, Jessie Dec 19, 1944 - Dec 4, 2021 BOHLER, Jessie Dec 19, 1944 - Dec 4, 2021 Wiles, Thelma Graveside service for Thelma Wiles, 85, will be Tuesday, December 7, 2021, at 2:00 p.m. in Memorial Park Cemetery. Arrangements are by Anderson-Burris Funeral Home & Crematory. www.andersonburris.com MOST POPULAR  Articles Chisholm faces kindergarten teacher shortage after 2 resign the same day Top portion of downtown Christ Tree breaks off as high winds blow through area Vance's missing plane possibly found, Enid pastor says Osage County landowner objecting to Kaw Lake condemnation award in Thursday hearing Welsh expected to step down as Longhorns head coach Osage Co. landowner's attorneys question need for Enid's planned water pipeline in condemnation hearings Riesen to be inducted into OBCA Hall of Fame Man arrested on 10 counts of possession of child pornography Medical marijuana industry growing in Oklahoma, 'changing lives' Statewide mixup over schools' pandemic EBT debit cards leads to local confusion First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. CONTACT INFORMATION enidnews.com 227 W. Broadway Enid, OK 73701 Phone: (580) 233-6600 Email: enidnews@enidnews.com SERVICES About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Personnel Subscriber Services Submission Forms Newspapers In Education California Privacy Policy California Collection Notice Do Not Sell My Info SECTIONS News Comics Puzzles Sports Community Opinion Obituaries Photos Video Gallery Weather © Copyright 2021 Enidnews.com, 227 W. Broadway Enid, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.