Search for: Search … SearchSubmit   HOME UPDATE Daily Update Subscribe to Simple-Click Update Submit Update Items NEWS News Headlines Breaking News News Briefs Messenger First Edition Photo Features Crime Report 5 Things to Know Weekend Planner Submit News BUSINESS Business Headlines Taking Care of Business Ribbon Cuttings EDUCATION Education Headlines College Briefs SPORTS Sports Headlines Baseball Basketball Cross Country Football Golf Powerlifting Rodeo Soccer Softball Swimming Tennis Track Volleyball Submit Sports OBITS Obituaries Funeral Notices Submit Obituary OPINION All Around Wise All the Wiser Arrested Developments Life is Kid’s Stuff Opinion Columns Letters to the Editor Submit Letter to the Editor CELEBRATIONS Weddings, Engagements & Anniversaries New Arrivals Submit a Wedding Announcement Submit an Anniversary Announcement Submit an Engagement Announcement Submit a New Arrival SUBSCRIBERS Log-In Read Latest Edition Archived E-Editions Special Sections Subscribe Monday, December 6, 2021 HOME   UPDATE   NEWS   BUSINESS   EDUCATION   SPORTS   OBITS   OPINION   CELEBRATIONS   SUBSCRIBERS   Update for Monday December 6, 2021 By Messenger Staff | Published on December 06, 2021 FacebookTwitterEmailMessengerCopy LinkSMSShare KEETER AREA HOUSE FIRE — Fire damaged a home on Private Road 4058 near Keeter Saturday afternoon. Firefighters from Boyd, Paradise, Briar-Reno, Parker County and Cottondale battled the blaze shortly after 1 p.m. Wise County EMS also responded. Wise County Fire Marshal Jeff Doughty said the two elderly occupants of the home escaped without injury. “There was heavy fire in the front area of the home,” Doughty said. “There’s smoke and heat damage throughout.” He said the home will likely be a complete loss due to the extensive damage. The cause of the fire is unknown at this time. CAPITAL MURDER TRIAL TO BEGIN — Jury selection in the capital murder trial of Ronnie Brezina of Decatur is scheduled to begin today in Jack County where the trial will be held following a change of venue order in October after a Wise County jury could not be selected. Brezina is accused of killing his ex-girlfriend, Brandy Wallen of Decatur, outside a Decatur tanning salon the night of Jan. 7, 2019. He faces an automatic life sentence if convicted of capital murder. WIND ADVISORY — A cold front moved through Wise County overnight, bringing much cooler temperatures and a strong north wind of 20 to 25 miles per hour with gusts up to 40 miles per hour possible. The county is under a wind advisory until 2 p.m. Today’s high will be around 51 degrees. While the county is not under a burn ban day, the Wise County Fire Marshal’s office strongly encourages people not to burn outdoors today. GIRLS BASKETBALL RESULTS — With a 4-0 record, Paradise claimed the championship at the Chico tournament last week. The Lady Panthers knocked off Slidell in the final game 32-14. Paradise’s Morgan Mitschke and Dalila Gonzalez, and Slidell’s Kaydee West were named to the all-tournament team. Slidell closed the tournament at 3-1. Decatur finished third in the Salado tournament with a 4-1 record. Bridgeport wrapped up the Iowa Park tournament with a 2-3 mark. Boyd went 1-3 at the Chico tournament. Alvord was 1-4 at the Iowa Park tournament. Chico earned a 1-3 mark at the Chico tournament. At the Saint Jo tournament, the VCA Patriots claimed the top prize with a 2-1 record. VCA defeated Graford in the double-overtime championship game 34-29. Ashlyn Stanford was named MVP, and Landree Leake received all-tournament honors. BOYS BASKETBALL RESULTS — Decatur claimed the silver at the North Texas Invitational tournament Saturday at Sanger High School. The Eagles fell to Kennedale in a double-overtime championship loss 58-55. Garrett Rodgers and Coleman Dykes earned all-tournament honors. VCA finished second at the Saint Jo tournament. The Patriots dropped a 35-23 loss to Muenster in the championship game. Jerran Martin and Brennan Ables were recognized as all-tournament players. Boyd wrapped up the Chico tournament with a second-place finish at 3-1. The Yellowjackets were defeated by Petrolia in the final game 52-41. Aidan Lemasters represented Boyd on the all-tournament team. Paradise was winless (0-5) at the Brock tournament. Alvord was 2-2 and fell to Electra in the third-place game (53-38) at the Chico tournament. Chico split its four games at the Chico tournament, while Slidell went 1-2 at the S&S tournament. SANTA SIGHTINGS IN RHOME — Santa will visit multiple Rhome neighborhoods tonight and next Monday between 6 and 8 p.m., escorted by a Rhome Fire Rescue in a fire truck. Updates will be provided on the Rhome Fire Rescue Facebook page both nights. CONSERVATIVES MEETING — Wise County Conservatives will host the Texas Conservative Mamas Truth Tour at 7 tonight at Rise Church in Decatur. Visit wiseconservatives.com or call 940-255-6674. ALZHEIMER’S SUPPORT GROUP — If you care for, or care about, someone with Alzheimer’s, the Wise Alzheimer’s Support Group will have a virtual meeting 7 p.m. Tuesday. Learn from others and share your experiences. For information on how to participate in the meeting call Richard, 940-255-0244. FUNERALS — Service for Lawana Kerr Snider, 85, of Decatur is 10 a.m. today at First Baptist Church in Decatur with burial at Oaklawn Cemetery. Hawkins Funeral Home in Decatur is handling arrangements. SERVICE for Eddie Lee Badger, 90, of Decatur is 2 p.m. today at Hawkins-Decatur. SERVICES for Cathy Gilliand, 73, of Montague; Paul David Alderman, 56, of Rhome; and Auga East, 92, of Decatur are pending at Hawkins-Decatur. SERVICE for Sharon Elizabeth Baradell, 56, of Boonsville will be held at a later date. Hawkins Funeral Home in Bridgeport is handling arrangements. GRAVESIDE service for Janet Fortenberry, 88, of Boyd is 11 a.m. Tuesday at Boyd Cemetery. Family visitation is 5-7 tonight at Hawkins Funeral Home in Boyd. SERVICE for David Garrison, 71, of Paradise is 3 p.m. today at Grace Fellowship Church in Paradise with burial at Paradise Cemetery. Hudson & Torres Family Funeral Home in Bridgeport is handling arrangements. FUNERAL for Martin Brown Simmons, 90, of Youngstown, Ariz., formerly of Rhome, is pending. Leave a Reply You must be logged in to post a comment. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Latest Editions 11-19-2021 E-Editon 12-03-21 E-Edition 12-01-21 E-Edition 11-26-21 E-Edition 11-24-21 E-Edition 11-19-2021 E-Editon 12-03-21 E-Edition 1 2 3 4 5 PrevNext Classifieds Classified-12-03-21 Classified-12-03-21 Classified-12-03-21 1 Buy This Issue! Social Media Privacy Policy Our Hometown DMCA Notices Newspaper web site content management software and services © 2019 - 2021 Wise County Messenger | PO Box 149, 115 South Trinity | Decatur, Texas 76234 | 940-627-5987 | E-mail webmaster@wcmessenger.com By continuing to browse or by clicking "Accept," you agree to our site's privacy policy.AcceptPrivacy policy 