  
site-logo
Monday, December 6, 2021
Welcome, Guest
Sign UpLog In
Home
View e-Editions
e-Newsletter Sign Up
Customer Service
Subscription Services
Advertise
Local News
Sports
Farm & Business
Entertainment
Opinion
Letters to the Editor
Family
Obituaries
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Multimedia
Have a question? Please give us a call at (605) 256-4555
Copyright © 2021 • Wick Communications

Search...
Toggle navigation
site-logo
Next Up
NEXT UP
Law Enforcement Blotter
Following is the latest Law Enforcement Blotter for Lake County:

FEATURED
Madison Public Library offers variety of holiday activities
By MARY GALES ASKREN Staff Reporter Dec 2, 2021 Updated Dec 2, 2021 
Martin prepares winter kits
CHILDREN’S LIBRARIAN Lisa Martin tries out each of the activities she plans for the Madison Public Library’s winter kits. Among this year’s kits is a paper airplane.

Photo by Mary Gales Askren
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Santa Claus is coming to town – but that is just one of the activities planned for area children at the Madison Public Library during the month of December.

“It’s a continuation of what we’ve done in previous years because what we’ve done is popular,” children’s librarian Lisa Martin said.

On Dec. 13, Santa is coming for a special preschool storytime. Cookies with Santa begins at 6:30 p.m. with music and fingerplays. Martin will also read a story with the children.

“Then, we ring our bells and that calls Santa in,” she said.

For parents and other adults present, the magic comes from watching the children, who are noisy with excitement but become silent with awe as Santa walks past.

Because waiting is difficult for preschoolers, the group in attendance will then be divided into three groups. One group will make ornaments, and another will decorate Christmas cookies while the third has the opportunity to meet with Santa. The groups will rotate so each does all three activities.

“It’s so much fun,” Martin said, grateful to return to the library’s traditional holiday activities after improvising last year in response to the pandemic.

Families must register to attend the special preschool storytime. As of Wednesday, 10 slots remained available.

Prior to the event for preschoolers, on Dec. 11, the Teen Advisory Board is hosting a Christmas Gnomes Craft for middle school and high school students. Beginning at 11 a.m., teens can craft their own gnomes and enjoy some snacks.

Martin said they did a similar project a couple of years ago and it proved to be popular with girls and boys alike.

“The girls were going for a certain look, and the boys were going for stories,” she said, relating one of the boys’ stories.

He had used a pipe cleaner to make the name “Fred” which he then affixed to his gnome’s hat. However, when he introduced his gnome to others, he said the gnome’s name was Bob. This led to questions about the name to which he answered the hat was a hand-me-down.

Martin encourages teens to attend even if they haven’t participated in past events.

School-aged children are not being left out. Martin is preparing winter kits for children who are in elementary school from junior kindergarten through fifth grade. Each kit contains 10 days of activities, games and crafts.

“It starts on the day they get out of school,” she said. “Every day there’s a craft or idea.”

She admits that she did rely on Oriental Trading for three of the kits, including a pull-back Santa, but others she is assembling. Among the kits that delight her is a pipe cleaner pal, which is crafted from pipe cleaners and beads.

“The one I’m most excited about and the kids will be excited about is candy sushi,” Martin indicated.

Substituting Rice Krispies for rice, Swedish Fish for raw fish, and Fruit by the Foot for seaweed, the kit provides children with the opportunity to make a playful version of sushi.

She explained that some of the kits are more involved than others. In addition to having an activity to do each day, the kits will refer the children to books which will be available online – a fiction and a nonfiction book related to the activity of the day.

Martin said the kits appeal to her not only as a librarian but also as a mother.

“Last year, my youngest would say he was bored, and I’d ask him if he’d opened his winter kit,” she noted. She found it satisfying to engage him in a learning activity that was also fun for him to do.

The library will be preparing 100 kits that will be available on a first-come, first-served basis. Families will be able to pick up one 10-day kit for each child in elementary school as long as they are available at the library. The kits can be picked up on or after Dec. 15.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Most Popular
Former NFL quarterback provides students with life lessons
Tom Nielsen returns to Dakota State
Pardy assumes duties as assistant adjutant for SD Army Guard
All-State football teams announced
Law Enforcement Blotter
Mr. and Mrs. Fischer
Rapid City police: 2 people dead in apparent murder-suicide
Sioux Falls woman sentenced for helping homicide suspects
Rutland native sees adoption as God's plan for her life
Law Enforcement Blotter
Follow us
 

Read the eNewspaper, a digest edition of the newspaper
Get the latest digital edition from Madison Daily Leader in your inbox
Enter email address
site-logo
madisondailyleader.com
214 S Egan Ave, PO Box 348
Madison, SD 57042
Phone: 605-256-4555
Email: news@madisondailyleader.com
Follow Us
 
Services
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise
Subscribe
Promote Your Event
Staff Directory
Site Forms
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sections
Home
View e-Editions
News
Opinion
Family
Obituaries
Local Events
Classfieds
© Copyright 2021 Madison Daily Leader, 214 S Egan Ave, PO Box 348 Madison, SD | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
The DAILY LEADER EXTRA is owned by Wick Communications.
