Search for:
Search …
SearchSubmit
Log In
Home
News
Sports
Obituaries
Opinions
Cook of the Week
Photo Gallery
Videos
Tribune E-Editions
Free Monday Reminder
Free E-Publications
Subscribe to Print Edition
Subscribe to E-Edition
Photo Reprints
Purchase Printing
Purchase Advertising Products
Pay My Bill

HOME
 
NEWS
 
SPORTS
 
OPINIONS
 
OBITUARIES
 
PHOTO GALLERY
 
VIDEOS
 
CONTACT US
 
PURCHASE
 
E-EDITIONS
 
COVID-19 SAFETY STATEMENT
.



.
Spring will tell the tale of Lake Oahe water levels
 Open Audio Article Player
By Katie Zerr | on December 02, 2021

Scott Sands (scott@mobridgetribune.com)
FacebookTwitterSkypeMessengerEmailPrintFriendlyCopy LinkShare
The driftwood of cottonwood and elms that is washed up on the banks of the Grand River sits high on dry ground now as the water rests low and stagnant after a nearly snowless winter and a summer with little rain.
Where the surface of Lake Oahe typically sits at about 1607 feet above mean sea level, it has receded to only 1596 feet, revealing untold acres of real estate, shale and weeds where the baitfish that feed the walleye would typically spawn.
Water is the life blood of Mobridge. The town relies on a healthy lake, rainfall and snowmelt to sustain fishing, hunting, agriculture, and tourism.
Deer hunting this year was affected by this summer’s drought which exacerbated an outbreak of bluetongue disease among white-tailed deer leading to the refunding of hunting licenses by the Department of Game, Fish, and Parks (GF&P).
According to one longtime resident, cattle drinking from the lake, streams and bays can get stuck in the thick mud known as gumbo. With no run-off to refill and refresh, the water in the dams doesn’t circulate and can become contaminated and dangerous for livestock to consume.
Farmers who rely on the lake lose crops when the irrigation systems can’t reach the water.
And although the numbers of game fish this year may remain unaffected so far, any more recession of the lake could affect game fish populations and the tourism they bring.
The exposure of the Moose Flats near Highway 12 may even have some residents fearing another “Attack of the Tumbleweeds” like in 1989 when giant tumbleweeds grew there, were blown throughout the town by heavy winds, and blocked roads and doors. And worst of all, the weeds were highly flammable tinder that could have caught fire and endangered homes and lives.
But despite apparent reason for concern, officials are not yet anticipating disaster.
Kurt Schmaltz, supervisor of the Mobridge Water Department, is not worried about problems with the municipal water supply since the intake goes to the main channel of the Missouri River, “so the whole river would have to dry up,” he said. The security of the water supply is the result of the $2.3 million raw water intake project (partially funded by a $500,000 grant in 2009) which extended the intake system further into the lake.
Dan Jost, GF&P Regional Fisheries Manager, said the area has been accustomed to high water during previous years, and that current levels, even though they are not optimal, will be okay for bait fish and game fish as long as they remain stable.
“The low water wasn’t that bad because we had stable water in the spring,” he said. “We’re not going to lose water through the winter. Fishing spots are going to change a bit but it won’t affect the number of fish.”
Jost said that water levels in April, May, and June will determine the effects on fish next year. If the water level drops at this time, it will expose the coast where fingerlings lay their eggs, resulting in a decrease in food for game fish such as walleye, northern pike, and sauger.
Lake Oahe is still far from lows reached just over a decade ago. In 2006, the water pool was at 1572 feet – 20 feet lower than it is now. Jost said the Indian Memorial Boat Ramp was completely dry, and you could only pilot a boat between two pillars of the singing bridge.
The future of the Oahe depends on the melt from this year’s snow in the Rockies and on the plains, butthe forecast for next year brings no certainty of either relief, stability or disaster. In fact, despite the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) ability to predict temperatures and precipitation to the west, east and south of the Dakotas they have no idea what’s in store for the northern plains region of the United States.
In fact, conditions could be drier, wetter, both, or even normal. According to South Dakota State University (SDSU) State Climatologist Laura Edwards, in an interview with South Dakota State University News, “There is a fair amount of uncertainty among climate model forecasts for the coming winter, which could mean periods of both cold and warm and also snowy and dry conditions fluctuating throughout the season.”

the forecast for next year brings no certainty of either relief, stability or disaster. In fact, despite the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) ability to predict temperatures and precipitation to the west, east and south of the Dakotas they have no idea what’s in store for the northern plains region of the United States.
In fact, conditions could be drier, wetter, both, or even normal. According to South Dakota State University (SDSU) State Climatologist Laura Edwards, in an interview with South Dakota State University News, “There is a fair amount of uncertainty among climate model forecasts for the coming winter, which could mean periods of both cold and warm and also snowy and dry conditions fluctuating throughout the season.”


More From Featured StoriesGo To The Featured Stories Section
New record for ‘Share the Spirit’ fundraiser
Kraft, Lawrence named to Class 9AA All-State team
Low water
Leave a Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment 

Name * 

Email * 

Website 

 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.



TRENDING STORIES
1
Mobridge resident dies after accident
2
Eddie Walker starred for Mobridge Tiger football team
3
Citing multiple issues,Cain resigns from commission
4
MP School Board approves staff changes
5
Jody Olheiser not only taught, but learned from her students




SECTIONS
Home
News
Sports
Obituaries
Cook of the Week
Opinions
Photo Gallery
Tribune E-Editions
Monday Reminder E-Edition
Free E-Publications
CONTACT
Call or Email Us
Change of Address Form
Snowbird Address Form
Submit Letter to the Editor
Employment Application
Like us on Facebook
Privacy Policy
PRODUCTS/SERVICES
Advertising Products
Printing
Classified Ads
Subscribe
Photo Reprints
Free Monday Reminder
Tribune E-Edition
VIDEOS
Live Sports
Mobridge City Council
Walworth County Commission
Our Hometown DMCA Notices
Newspaper web site content management software and services
© Copyright 2017-2021 Mobridge Tribune


mobridgetribune.com
1413 East Grand Crossing
Mobridge, South Dakota 57601
Phone:605-845-3646
Toll Free Phone: 800-594-9418
Fax: 605-845-7659
Email: office@mobridgetribune.com
By continuing to browse or by clicking "Accept," you agree to our site's privacy policy.AcceptPrivacy policy
