 
CHURCH SERVICES

CLASSIFIEDS

OBITUARIES

CONTACT US
The Parkston Advance, Inc.
P.O. Box J
205 West Main Street
Parkston, SD 57366

605-928-3111
800-310-3140

advance@santel.net

COMING EVENTS
PARKSTON
Weekly
Alcoholics Anonymous and Al-Anon will meet Friday at 8 p.m. at Sacred Heart Catholic Church. Please use the north entrance. For more information, call 605-505-0310.

TRIPP
Monday, December 6
The City of Tripp will meet at 7:30 p.m. in the City Hall.

AREA
Weekly
Alcoholics Anonymous Open Meeting will meet Sunday at 7 p.m. at the Ethan Methodist Church basement. For more information, call 605-770-5410.

Meals on Wheels drivers for December
Meals-on-wheels drivers for December are:
Monday: Peg Fischer.
Tuesday: Merlyn Tiede.
Wednesday: Mark and Gail Tiede.
Thursday: Joe Weber.
Friday: Ron and Connie Thury.
Saturday: Carol Gilman.

heading
parkston
parkston
Countdown begins
Twenty-four days and counting. That is how much time is left before Christmas Eve, Friday, December 24.

Board discusses virtual learning
Trying to take a more pro-active approach to virtual learning, the Parkston School Board discussed options that could help if the school would have to close.

map
La Niña expected to influence 2021-22 winter climate
La Niña conditions have been officially declared this season by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, but what does that mean for South Dakota's winter climate, and this year's outlook in particular?

Conversation is a critical element of caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's Disease
More than six million Americans have been diagnosed as having Alzheimer's Disease and that number is growing at too fast a rate; the projection is the numbers of Alzheimer's patients will more than double by 2050.

open
Unique reasons to shop at small businesses
The numbers don't lie. Locally owned businesses may be classified as "small," but they have a big impact on the national economy.

poiunds
Pounds packed on during pandemic cause health concerns
Many Americans, including adults and children in South Dakota, have gained weight since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and that has healthcare experts worried about the potential for long-term negative physical and mental health implications.

Big game hunters reminded of transportation rules
Big game seasons are upon us and the South Dakota Game, Fish and Parks would like to remind hunters of game transportation rules.

Chronic wasting disease detected in new area
Chronic wasting disease was recently confirmed in a new area in central South Dakota.

Six things holiday travelers need to do right now
In the wake of the pandemic, it is expected that Americans will have a healthy appetite to gather with friends and family over the year-end holiday season..

. Tripp

tripp
More events set for weekend
Only 24 more days to Christmas Even, but more holiday events are coming to Tripp this weekend.

Strategies to ease the burden of student loan debt
Student loan debt in the United States is growing. According to EducationData.org, federal student loan debt has grown at an annual average rate of just under 28% since the start of the 21st century.

Tripp blood drive results
The LifeServe Blood Center blood drive held in Tripp, November 23, had a fantastic turn-out with 15 donors registered and 18 units of life saving blood was donated.






 		
 	Copyright The Parkston Advance, Inc. 2018	 