Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on rapidcityjournal.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Rapid City Journal Media Group
ALERT TOP STORY
Murder-suicide victims knew each other, police say
Shannon Marvel 4 hrs ago 
East Saint Patrick Street, South Valley Drive
The Rapid City Police Department showed a large presence at an apparent murder-suicide incident outside of a business located in the area of E. Saint Patrick Street and S. Valley Drive on Saturday. 

Photo courtesy Rapid City Police Department
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Shannon Marvel
The two people killed in an apparent murder-suicide Saturday night in Rapid City did know each other, though the specific relationship remains under investigation, Rapid City Police Department spokesman Brendyn Medina said Monday.

The shooting was reported around 7:40 p.m. Saturday at a business adjacent to the intersection of E. Saint Patrick Street and S. Valley Drive, according to a news release. Medina confirmed Monday that the shooting took place outside of the Valley Sports Bar. 

Police found two individuals with fatal gunshot wounds outside of the business upon arrival Saturday night. The identities of the individuals have not been released.

"We are still looking into the specifics of why they were there and how many shots were fired," Medina said.

This is the second murder-suicide investigation in Rapid City within the past three months. On Sept. 21, police responded to a murder-suicide involving a mother and her son in the 800 block of N. Spruce Street.

You must be logged in to react.
Click any reaction to login.
7
Tags
Brendyn Medina Police Murder Weaponry Crime Criminal Law Suicide Shot Rapid City Investigation
Be the first to know
Get local news delivered to your inbox!

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Shannon Marvel
Criminal Justice Reporter

Most Popular
Police respond to murder-suicide Saturday evening
Police respond to murder-suicide Saturday evening
Police are investigating an apparent murder-suicide that left two people dead Saturday night, according to a news release from the Rapid City …

South Dakota man charged in Jan. 6 riot, arrested near Rapid City
South Dakota man charged in Jan. 6 riot, arrested near Rapid City
A man living near Rapid City is facing several federal criminal charges in connection to his alleged participation in the Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol …

Police release names of two Rapid City shooting victims
Police release names of two Rapid City shooting victims
The two people killed in two recent shooting incidents in Rapid City have been identified by police. 

Racist remarks cost SD Mines $5K; offenders identified as students
Racist remarks cost SD Mines $5K; offenders identified as students
South Dakota School of Mines was levied a rare fine of $5,000 by the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference for racist remarks by individuals dire…

Ellsworth command chief removed by base commander
Ellsworth command chief removed by base commander
The commander of the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth Air Force Base announced Monday he has removed Chief Master Sgt. Justin Deisch from his posit…

Woman arrested in connection with Marquette Drive shooting death
Woman arrested in connection with Marquette Drive shooting death
A 22-year-old Kyle woman has been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting Monday on Marquette Drive, the Rapid City Police Department a…

Texas man charged with raping 5-year-old
Texas man charged with raping 5-year-old
A Texas man is being held at the Pennington County Jail on a $100,000 cash bond on a first-degree rape charge involving a 5-year-old victim, a…

Juvenile taken into custody for Tamarack Drive shooting
Juvenile taken into custody for Tamarack Drive shooting
A juvenile male has been taken into custody in relation to the Nov. 28 shooting on Tamarack Drive, according to a news release from the Rapid …

Your Two Cents for Dec. 1
Your Two Cents for Dec. 1
Why does it take a shooting before anything is done about a drug house after the people living in the area have complained about it for over a…

Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Rapid City Journal Media Group
    
Sites & Partners
Chadron Record
Compass
Northern Hills
Elevate Magazine
Services
Become a Member
Contact Us
Place An Ad
Activate Full Access
Email Updates
Become a Carrier
Dealer Services
Work here
© Copyright 2021 Rapid City Journal, 507 Main Street Rapid City,SD | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

