Camden Fairview's girls varsity dominate Hope 38-18 in home opener
by Michael Hanich | December 1, 2021 at 12:30 p.m.

Photo By: Michael Hanich Camden Fairview junior forward Karmen Johnson set up a play against Hope.
After three solid wins on the road for the Camden Fairview Cardinals girls' basketball team, they hosted their first home game of the season on Tuesday night against the Hope Bobcats. The Cardinals had previously faced the Bobcats in the first game, where they won 49-22 on Nov. 16.

Camden Fairview girls entered the game with a three-game win streak, the home crowd on their side and riding off a solid momentum of stellar play in their first three games. The Bobcats gave the Cardinals a tougher fight this time around, but the Cardinals flexed their way to another solid 38-18 win at home.

The Cardinals were efficient at passing the ball around the court as each of the players found ways to either score or help their teammates get to the basket in the first quarter. The three-point shooting from Camden Fairview was highly efficient from the start of the game. Meanwhile, the defense of Camden Fairview was stout and aggressive in the paint and out in the wing as they heavily contested every shot of Hope throughout the game. The Cardinals took a commanding 12-2 lead at the end of the first quarter.

Even though the Bobcats found ways of getting the ball into the basket in the second quarter, the Cardinals were able to score just as much. The bench for Camden Fairview was able to step in and provide fresh energy and more scoring opportunities against Hope. Camden Fairview went into halftime with a 26-12 lead.

The Bobcats, desperate to find the efficient scoring of Camden Fairview, tried to be more aggressive in the paint and made them make their shots at the free-throw line. While Camden Fairview stalled with their many attempts at the free-throw line, it also gave the Cardinals time to recover and catch their breath for a dominant defensive performance in the third quarter. Camden Fairview only allowed one point from Hope off a free-throw line shot, coming out of the third quarter with a 34-13 lead.

In the fourth quarter, the Cardinals looked to kill the clock as Hope tried to climb their way from a tremendous deficit. This was the only quarter where Camden Fairview was outgained in points, as Hope outscored the home team 5-4. In the end, the Cardinals started strong by scoring efficiently throughout the court and displaying a stout defense in the paint.

Junior forwards Karmen Johnson and Amiyah Davis were the main playmakers in the paint on both ends of the court.

Johnson scored eight points, shooting 4-for-6 in field goals and accounting for four rebounds. Johnson was efficient in second-chance buckets and driving to the basket in transition. Davis led the team in points accounted for with nine, and she also accounted for three steals. Junior guards Nicole Sanders and Ja'Kyree Spencer were tenacious defenders in the paint and at the wing as they each accounted for three steals. Spencer also scored seven points against the defense of Hope.

The Cardinals (4-0) will have their next official game next Tuesday on the road versus the El Dorado Wildcats, who are set to play their first game of the season on Friday night.