BrickCity planning second location in Fayetteville
Alex Gladden
Fort Smith Times Record








BrickCity leases space to approximately 100 small businesses.
The Shops at BrickCity is planning to add a second location in Fayetteville. 

BrickCity leases space to between 75 to 100 businesses in Fort Smith, offering residents one spot to buy unique gifts. 

The space in Fayetteville is located at Evelyn Hills Midtown Shopping Center and will be about 21,000 square feet, making it about 3,000 feet larger than the Fort Smith site, BrickCity CEO Sara Adams-Moitoza said. 

There will be more than 100 shops in the Fayetteville BrickCity. Adams-Moitoza is still accepting applications for businesses that want to fill the store. 

The Fayetteville location will open in February 2022. Adams-Moitoza said she has been working toward opening a second store since she first opened the Fort Smith shop nine years ago. 

“This vision has been in my head for a long time," Adams-Moitoza said. 

She has plans to open a third location in northwest Arkansas but is not yet ready to publicize its location or opening date. 

“This concept is needed in every community," Adams-Moitoza said.

BrickCity leases space to approximately 100 small businesses.
She said her business model helps people trying to open small businesses be successful. 

“Small business is the heart of the community," Adams-Moitoza said.  

Within two to five years of opening, 85% of small businesses fail, said Gina Jackson, the general manager of the Fort Smith store. 

“What I think is really exciting is that we are going to, whether it’s Fort Smith or Fayetteville, we are a firm believer in really helping the small business entrepreneur realize their dreams through low cost and a high structure format, and you know what I think that’s different," Jackson said. 

Adams-Moitoza is passionate about helping small business owners, especially women, flourish. 

At her stores, small business owners can rent space without having to worry about paying for utilities or paying for people to work the shops. All of that is covered by BrickCity, basically cutting their expenses in half, Adams-Moitoza said. 

At BrickCity, small business owners can rent as small as two feet of space.

For some small business owners, BrickCity served as an incubator for their business, allowing them to become successful enough to open their own storefront. They then have enough history to receive bank loans, something that is particularly difficult for women, Adams-Moitoza said. 

“I have such a heart for small businesses," Adams-Moitoza said. 