The Caring Place shares activities in HSV
Tamara Gray, director of The Caring Place, holds a “busy” towel, and her floor supervisor, LeeAnne, holds a fiddle board. The towel and board are favorite “toys” for memory care participants who have busy hands and fingers. (Sandy Johansen photo) 
Tamara Gray, director of The Caring Place, holds a “busy” towel, and her floor supervisor, LeeAnne, holds a fiddle board. The towel and board are favorite “toys” for memory care participants who have busy hands and fingers. (Sandy Johansen photo)
SANDY JOHANSEN, Staff writer
10/26/2021 12:40 PM
The Caring Place, adult day care and respite program based in Hot Springs, has partnered with Christ of the Hills United Methodist Church to offer The Caring Day now scheduled for the third Friday of each month. The program kicked off at 10 a.m. Friday, October 15. Each session begins at 10 a.m. and ends at 2 p.m.
The program is created for loved ones to enjoy a time of socialization, exercise, and activities designed for all levels of memory loss. There’s no charge for the session except for $5 which covers the cost of lunch.
This is a drop off program for anyone diagnosed with any form of dementia. Trained professionals can give care givers a break while loved ones socialize, exercises, plays games, and has fun in a safe environment.
Lunches and snacks are nutritional; never fried. There’s also special treats including freshly baked cookies to accompany a cup of coffee.
The activities included: Finish The Phrase, Drum Fit, Bingo, Balloon Volleyball, Lunch, Trivia, Horse Racing Game and Kickball.
“Our program is designed to help participants with cognitive aerobics, arts and crafts, music therapy and many other celebrations,” said Tamara Gray, director. “In addition, if someone would care to join these activities more than once a month, SCAT service is offered for pick up at homes to drive partakers to our Hot Springs location and return to HSV following the day’s events to their home. We provide an extremely safe environment.”
For more information or to reserve a spot, please call 501-623-2881 or email director@thecaringplacehotsprings.com.