SAU's Celebration of Lights set for tonight after Christmas parade
Today at 12:00 a.m.

Brad Stout, left, director of student affairs and facilities at Southern Arkansas University and a helper finish putting lights on the tree in front of Overstreet. Stout said there are estimated 350,000 lights on campus. (Becky Bell/Special to the Banner News)

 
Many people do not put up their Christmas decorations until after Thanksgiving, but at Southern Arkansas University, outdoor decorations begin going up before Halloween out of necessity.

Brad Stout, director of student affairs and facilities at SAU, said there are about 350,000 lights on the campus and more than 250 people who work together to make the displays happen.

Stout, who has been helping with Christmas decorating at SAU since 2004 and has been in charge of this task for the past six years, said getting the university decorated is a campus-wide effort.

"The freshman seminar classes all sign up to help, the physical plant helps, the Residence Hall Association sponsors the whole event, Greek Life and multiple other student organizations help," he said.

On Tuesday, Stout and others were putting lights on the large Christmas tree in front of Overstreet. There are 4,650 white lights which make the tree begin glowing right in time for Celebration of Lights -- a community event on campus which includes strolls around the Christmas lights decorating SAU.

The lighting of the Overstreet Christmas tree is set for 6 p.m. on Thursday following the Christmas Parade, a tradition that is always held the first Thursday after Thanksgiving.

"Decorating definitely puts us in the Christmas mood, just to know the Christmas parade ends here and to enjoy that celebration," Stout said. "We also get to share this with the Magnolia community for the holiday season."

The Physical Plant employees play a significant role in putting up the lights on campus as well. Diagrams are kept and referred to each year so lights will be put back in their proper place.

One of the biggest decorating challenges most years is putting the lights on the 180-foot candle at the SAU Bell Tower in the middle of campus. However, the candle has remained lit since 2020 as a symbol of hope for the COVID-19 pandemic to end.

The news that the lights would remain on the bell tower past the holidays was received well by those in the Physical Plant, who might have otherwise been selected as the person to take them down, said Steven Taylor, grounds crew supervisor.

"You could have heard the grounds crew holler when they said we didn't have to take them down again," Taylor said.

Keith Labit, project manager for the physical plant, said there are 23,400 lights on the bell tower. Each strand of lights is 150 feet long, with one LED light per inch. There are 1,800 lights per strand.

Labit has had the job of putting the lights up on the bell tower before.

"It's a long way up there, but it is a really nice view once you are up there," Labit said.

Each year before the lights are hung across campus, Brandon Goodner, electrician, tests them to see if they work. If the lights do not work, they are discarded and replaced. Light prices fluctuate, but a 150-foot strand of lights costs about $140, Labit said.

Most lights last for a while, but the ones on the bell tower are dry rotting because they are not meant to withstand the heat of the summer, Taylor said. Still, the candle -- which can be seen for miles -- continues to shine this year for Christmas and for the pandemic.

Lights dominate the campus and on most residence halls there is a mule kicking figure surrounded by lights. There are also small Christmas trees in front of Overstreet -- one for each year SAU has been in place, so 112 trees, Stout said.

Another tree that celebrates the history of SAU is the bicentennial tree, which is blue and gold and on East Lane, Stout said.

In addition, there is also the Greek Theatre, which is lit up by Greek Life in all white each year.