Escambia County School District is hiring 20 new security officers for elementary schools Jennifer Rich Pensacola News Journal The Escambia County School District plans to hire 20 new campus security officers in early 2022 to enhance security in elementary schools. This will mark the third year the district has participated in the Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Program established after the 2018 school shooting at Marjory Douglas Stoneman High School in Parkland. The training is named in honor of Feis, who died taking bullets to protect students from the shooter who stole 17 lives. "The biggest challenge for us is getting people to understand our campus security officers are highly trained," said Kyle Kinser, the Escambia County School District's protection services coordinator. Stronger firewalls:Pensacola mom outraged kids could access porn in class, wants Escambia County School District to strengthen firewalls Foreign language:ECSD introduces foreign language instruction at seven of its elementary schools Campus security officers differ from school resource officers, who are law enforcement officers who have received 40 hours of additional training. Security officers are employed by the school district and come from varied backgrounds. Their state-funded training is specific to being armed personnel who aid in the prevention and abatement of active assailant incidents on school campuses. Kinser said the district had relied on off-duty law enforcement officers to patrol campuses, but it has been a struggle to find enough to go around. "Every one of our campuses has either a law enforcement officer full-time or a security officer anytime school is in session," Kinser said. The rollout of armed security to all Escambia County schools, including elementary buildings, began Monday, March 20, 2018. Traditionally, school resource officers are at middle and high schools. The district recently added three new resource officers and hopes to recruit security officers who are preferably prior military, former law enforcement or have worked in private security. "Campus security officers protect students in our schools across all of Escambia County. Rigorous training is conducted by the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office to provide the necessary skills," Kinser said. "They get to train with the best." Candidates are required to complete more than 150 hours of paid training. The core of the program is 80 hours of firearms training in which they must shoot at an 85% rate of accuracy to pass. Only about 40% of applicants successfully make it through the training and must recertify annually. DeSantis visits Pensacola to announce $100 million budget proposal for Florida National Guard 'Heads in beds': City will fund shelter sites, hotel vouchers, day center for the homeless Top 5 things to do in Pensacola this weekend: Christmas parades for everyone (literally) 'I'm just kind of in shock': Fire at Aspen Village Apartments displaces six families 'A lot memories have been lost': Fire destroys block-long building — and businesses inside The district is now accepting applications for campus security officers through Jan. 7. Applicants are encouraged to apply as soon as possible, as there are multiple steps in the application process. The next class is expected to begin Feb. 28. Kinser said the most successful candidates have a good foundation of experience and the right temperament for this type of work. Applicants will receive a thorough background screening, psychological evaluation and polygraph test.   The starting salary is $31,397 for 10-month employment on the same pay schedule as teachers. That breaks down to about $20 per hour. Candidates who complete the training process are eligible for a variety of benefits. Candidates may apply online at ecsd-fl.schoolloop.com. "There's a lot of places you could be working in the security field," Kinser said. "It's a rewarding place being in an elementary school."