Vaccine clinic held at Model Blake Vickers bvickers@richmondregister.com   Dec 3, 2021  1 of 3      Model Laboratory School held its third free vaccine clinic of the year on Thursday afternoon. Attendees were offered their first, second, or third round of the COVID-19 vaccine. The clinic was the latest in a collaboration between Model and WildHealth and was held in the Model Annex. The clinic operated from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and 39 doses were administered in total — 23 were booster shots for adults, and 16 were first-time pediatric initial doses. “EKU President David McFaddin and Superintendent John Williamson are committed to promoting community health so that we can continue normal, day-to-day in-person activities in the local community, at the university, and at Model. Model administration encourages all eligible persons to consider getting the COVID-19 vaccine," Model Laboratory Schools said in a statement released to The Register. It came at an opportune time for those seeking out the vaccine, as the CDC now recommends the shot for anyone over the age of five and cases of the new Omicron variant have been reported in the United States. Among those who got their first dose of the vaccine today was Jackson Rogers, who is in the five to 12 age group that is just now eligible to receive the vaccine. Rogers spoke about his experience getting the shot. "It didn't hurt as much as I expected it to. I just didn't wanna get COVID. Mom was just like, 'It's up you're going to get the shot'." Rogers said. Jackson said he thinks his fellow classmates should get the vaccine too. His mother, Mendy Rogers, got her booster shot as her youngest child got his first dose. She said that it was a relief to finally see all of her children vaccinated. "Jackson is the baby of four and he was the only one of all of mine that couldn't get it until now. So it's his turn," Mendy Rogers said. Model set up Thursday's clinic largely for students that are Jackson's age, as a huge portion of the K-12 school wasn't eligible for the vaccine shot until recently. It was also a matter of convenience as well. A clinic at the school made it easier for any students or parents who wanted to get vaccinated. "We wanted to give the opportunity for all of our children aged five to 12 to get the vaccine, so that they had the opportunity to promote their health," said Model Assistant Superintendent Kim Puckitt. "We tried to schedule it at the time we did .so parents could come with their children to get their shots. Little kids, you really want someone to hold your hand as you get the shot." Puckitt got her booster shot at the clinic alongside several other adults. Appointments to get the vaccine could be made in advance, but the clinic also accepted walk-in appointments. The choice was made to make the clinic open to the public in an effort to help the entire county battle the pandemic. "We want as many people to get the shot as possible. The more the better. We did leave the clinic open to the public in case EKU students or anyone else wanted to come in. I figure the more vaccines we get, the more Madison County as a whole benefits," Puckitt said.