Madison County hosts 2nd annual Menorah lighting Taylor Six  tsix@richmondregister.com  Dec 4, 2021  1 of 4      The second annual Menorah lighting took place Friday night at the Madison County Courthouse in celebration of Hanukkah. According to Rabbi Shlomo Leib Litvin, of Lexington, Friday was the sixth night of the Jewish 'Festival of Lights' commemorating the recovery of Jerusalem and subsequent rededication of the Second Temple at the beginning of the Maccabean revolt against the Syrian-Greek empire. He, along with Madison County Judge Reagan Taylor, stood together in the court chambers as Rabbi Litvin lit up six candles. According to the rabbi, Hanukkah is observed for eight nights and days, starting on the 25th day of Kislev according to the Hebrew calendar, which may occur at any time from late November to late December. The festival is observed by lighting the candles of a candelabrum with nine branches, commonly called a Menorah or Hanukkiah. This Menorah lighting, the rabbi said, was a way to bring light to every community and remember not only history, but to continue to learn how to work together despite differences. "We found the way to bring the light everywhere," Litvin said. "Thank God there are so many officials in Kentucky who celebrate that Hanukkah and very American spirit of religious freedom. We are better because we are different. Everyone's diversity is beneficial to the community. It is not despite our differences we are a community, it's because of them." This celebration in Madison County is one of 15 that Litvin will be a part of all over the state in other counties and with other organizations. Litvin said the sixth night of the ceremony is his favorite. "The sixth night of Hanukkah is one of my favorites because if we were in the Temple Era, we would be done already," he shared. "There were just six branches on the Temple Menorah, but the lesson of Hanukkah and story of the Maccabees who stood up for their faith to the Syrian Greeks; the story of that little bit of oil that lasted eight days and nights is not a history story. If it was, it would be over already. Instead, it is a constant story. It is a battle we are still a part of. Although we have lit all of the candles in the Menorah, we still have branches left. There is still work to do. If we look at these stories like they are in the past, then we are still missing a vital aspect of the holiday. So tonight remembers even as we accomplish things, even as we fill the temple Menorah up, there is still work to do. I am pleased to be here with Judge Taylor who has committed to that work to be a light in his community and to be a source of light for those around us." Judge Taylor agreed and said the Menorah serves as a symbol of Madison County's dedication to preserve and encourage the right and liberty of all its citizens to worship God freely, openly, and with pride. "The message of Hanukkah is the message of light and adding light to the world through acts of goodness and kindness, Taylor said. "The lesson is to add light every day and in everything we do to make the world and Madison County a better and brighter place." he said. "The Holiday of Chanukah contains a universal message for people of all faiths; namely that good will ultimately triumph over evil, freedom over oppression, and light over darkness."