Forskolin Review – Effective Natural Extract For Weight Loss? June 22, 2016 By DC Tribune Forskolin Review For many men and women, the battle to lose weight, gain muscle, stay fit, and have incredible energy is an uphill battle, and one they often lose. Let’s face it, it’s not easy to stick to a diet, keep to a daily running schedule, and lift weights all the time. Life often can and does get in the way. This is why you need supplements that can help keep your metabolism revved while you’re unable to hit the gym or keep to your diet. One of these is the popular and widely acclaimed Forskolin, that’s supposedly helped thousands of people all over the globe lose weight, stay fit and achieve their target body size… all without necessarily killing themselves in the gym every day. forskolin-extract What Is Forskolin & What Does it Do? Also known as Coleus forskolii, this particular plant ingredient is gotten from the roots of the Plectranthus barbatus plant, a member of the mint plant family that has been long used in herbal medicine and Ayurveda. It’s also an important part of some Asian and indian delicacies. Of particular importance in the plant is the cAMP (cyclic adenosine monophosphate) compound. It does this by activating and regulating an enzyme in the body called adenylate cyclase. This enzyme plays key roles in lipid metabolism and glycogen functions in the body. In summary, this compound is known for its effectiveness and triggering the burning of stored fat in the body. Combined with other activities that increase your body’s metabolic rates, users are bound to get excellent results from their weight loss regimens and dieting. This is what makes Forskolin very special. After Dr. Oz talked about this awesome compound and its attendant benefits, it’s gone on to become one of the most popular weight loss supplements in the last three years with thousands of individuals recording great success in melting belly fat, reducing overall body fat and improving their general sense of well being. Bodybuilding enthusiasts swear by its effectiveness at giving them the extra energy boost required to keep them going in their workout sessions. The internet is awash with testimonials of individuals who attribute significant weight loss and muscle tone to just taking Forskolin and staying moderately active without watching their diet per se. Forskolin To The Rescue? For many, life gets in the way of staying healthy and fit. When you consider that the average individual spends at least 8 hours a day sitting down and less than 1 hour moving, it is easy to see how they can gain weight, particularly around their mid-section. Even though many organizations are increasingly encouraging their staff to move around, the fact is that when you get in the zone or have a looming deadline, the last thing you’ll want to do is “stretch your legs” or walk around. You will agree with me that if you lose that job because you were trying to stay “healthy” on your employer’s time, you would only have yourself to blame. So, instead of worrying about this, you might want to consider taking forskolin to help burn that fat whilst you’re sedentary. Its appetite suppressing component also means that you get to feel less hungry, which would also contribute to your weight loss. These claims are backed by a very rigorous study carried out by the University of Kansas in 2005. Obese and overweight individuals who took part in the study were only required to take 250mg of a coleus supplement containing 10 percent forskolin extract twice a day for the duration of the study. This was the only alteration they made to their diets and lifestyle habits for 12 weeks. At the end of the study, it was observed that they shed their body fat at almost 8 times their normal rate, experienced an increase in serum free testosterone and increased their bone mass. So, if you have been on the sidelines about forskolin, now might be the right to time to rethink those objections. Benefits Of Using Forskolin Apart from the obvious benefits of weight loss and weight control, the ingredient is capable of accelerating your metabolism so that you get to store less fat and burn off more carbs. This is how you can stay slim and meet your weight loss goals. Its medicinal purposes have also been well documented. Ayurvedic and herbal medicine practitioners frequently add it to herbal tonics that are helpful in the treatment of medical conditions such as rheumatism, gastrointestinal disorders, and cardiovascular conditions. Men who suffer from very mild forms of testosterone deficiency might find it useful as an effective testosterone booster, designed to naturally increase testosterone production in your body. Any Forskolin Side Effects? Forskolin has no major side effects apart from diarrhea which is induced by the rapid metabolism actions of the cAMP. This happens because foods in your stomach are broken down faster, thus increasing the speed with which food moves through your digestive tracts and the faster absorption of nutrients into the blood. Also, forskolin has been known to lower blood pressure. So, if you’re hypotensive, you may want to skip it. Should You Buy Forskolin or Not? Based on everything you have read, the choice is yours. Admittedly, there isn’t enough concrete and clinical evidence -apart from those presented here- that it’s as effective as portrayed, but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t work. All we’ll suggest is try the exact same dosage used by the participants in the University of Kansas study -250mg of 10 percent forskolin extract per day- for 12 weeks, get some physical activity and adopt a healthy diet, and see how it works.