Jones Capital to build new $40 million headquarters in Hattiesburg, partner with USM Laurel Thrailkill Hattiesburg American Jones Capital plans to locate its new $40 million, 80,000-square-foot corporate headquarters in midtown Hattiesburg, CEO Jonathan Jones announced Monday.  At a press conference on The University of Southern Mississippi campus, Jones said the company, which employs over 400 people in Mississippi and 800 across the U.S., chose Hattiesburg for its new headquarters in anticipation of working more closely with USM. Students will have opportunities to intern at the company and potentially earn a permanent position. The company will offer competitive salaries of about $80,000 per year, more than twice the city's median household income, Jones said. Jones Capital plans to locate its new $40 million, 80,000-square-foot corporate headquarters midtown Hattiesburg, Miss., CEO Jonathan Jones announced Monday, Dec. 6, 2021. “Our announcement today will have a generational impact on our company and Hattiesburg, Mississippi," Jones said. "Bringing our portfolio companies' leadership teams together under one roof will create synergies, efficiencies and creative collaboration that will foster sustainable growth for Jones.” Jones Capital's portfolio companies, including Codaray Construction, FV Recycling, Jones Logistics, Jones Lumber, Jones Power, PortaBull Storage, Spot and Big Black River Holdings, will be housed in the building, which will serve as the primary office for over 230 employees. Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves said at the press conference the headquarters will create more than 200 jobs in Hattiesburg and called the announcement "a great day for the Pine Belt." "We've got Mississippians investing back in Mississippi and creating jobs, particularly higher paying jobs for our fellow Mississippians. … This investment by the Jones family to bring their companies into this one building, not only is it going to create great opportunities for the midtown area of Hattiesburg, it's also going to create great job opportunities for the young people as they graduate from The University of Southern Mississippi," Reeves said at the press conference. Construction is slated to begin in the summer and will take about 18 months to complete, with occupancy expected in early 2024.