Should the NCAA expand the College Football Playoffs? Updated: Jan. 02, 2019, 4:02 p.m. | Published: Nov. 22, 2017, 11:00 a.m. By The Tylt The College Football Playoffs have been a huge success, but many people feel the field needs to expand. Letting in more teams will not only reward other teams for successful seasons but also provide more games and more chances to make money for the NCAA. Still, expanding the playoff could cheapen the regular season, and make the playoffs feel less special. What do you think? PERSPECTIVES Critics of expanding the College Football Playoff are adamant that creating more playoff spots would cheapen the regular season. That's some lazy reasoning. Opening up the playoff race, only makes more exciting football where multiple games have playoff implications. Instead of getting excited about six games, maybe, featuring the top six teams, fans can look forward to eight or 10 games with a playoff spot on the line. Here is Manie Robinson from the Greenville News: Expanded college football playoff would give more teams more incentive Rarely does change work out the first time around. But the College Football Playoff is one of those exceptions. Four is the perfect number of teams for the postseason. It keeps the significance of the regular season elevated and adds excitement without having to add more games that put players in harm's way. Don't believe it? Just ask the players who put their bodies on the line for a chance to play a national championship. Here is former Alabama linebacker Reuben Foster, who won a national championship in 2015: Coaches, who have to deal with the grind of a football season, are also in favor of keeping the playoff to four games. Bill Hancock, the executive director of the College Football Playoff explains: It's easy to look from afar and say what is better for a sport. But if the people who put their bodies through the grind are saying the field should remain four games, maybe people should listen. College Football Playoff executive director: Coaches don't want playoff expanded Expanding the CFP would not be as difficult as many people make it out to be. Dieter Kurtenbach of Fox Sports came up with a simple format that gives automatic bids to champions of the Power Five conferences, and then awards the last three bids with a clearer rubric based on record, strength of schedule, etc. Is it perfect? No, but it allows more teams to compete in the playoff and creates more excitement around the postseason. Here are more details from Kurtenbach: It's time to expand the College Football Playoff -- here's how it would work Even Nate Silver, and the data-driven people at FiveThirtyEight, agree that an expansion of the playoff would be fair, giving spots to champions of the major conferences, and giving at-large bids to the most deserving schools while still preserving the sanctity of the regular season. Here is Silver with the details: Expand The College Football Playoff Expand the college football playoffs to a 10 team playoff. And pay the players for each win 👍🏻👍🏻 — Mario Munoz (@SuperMario800) October 9, 2017 Four teams in the playoffs assures that a certain standard of teams will be competing for a national championship. Adding more would only dilute the product, and hurt a school that earned a shot at the national championship all year, only to have it potentially be snatched away by a team that stumbled into the playoffs with two or three losses. That kind of mediocre football doesn't belong in college football. Joe Cox of Saturday Down South breaks it down: Alabama's loss shows pitfall of CFP and why expanding to 8 would destroy college football as we know it The core argument from people who want to keep the four-team is the regular season. They are right. College football has the best regular season in all of sports. Every game is important, and a loss can be devastating. That razor-thin margin is what makes college football the best. Adding more teams would only make the regular season meaningless. That's when you get an NFL situation where games don't really matter until the end of November and beyond. Every week is a playoff game with so few spots in the College Football Playoff, and the sport should keep it that way. Here is Michael Rosenberg of Sports Illustrated with more: 