Welcome, Guest Sign UpLog In Home News Sports Opinion Obituaries Faith Life & Family e-Edition Classifieds Local Events Publications Search... Toggle navigation site-logo Next Up NEXT UP Studies: Trump tax cuts helped lower income families, Build Back Better helps wealthier Americans	 Studies: Trump tax cuts helped lower income families, Build … (The Center Square) – Democrats have argued that the tax ref… Experts predict less economic growth, elevated inflation for years to come By Casey Harper | The Center Square Dec 6, 2021 Updated 43 min ago  Virus Outbreak New York The interior of the San Gennaro restaurant is seen April 17, 2020, in the Bronx borough of New York. Mark Lennihan / AP photo TownNews.com Content Exchange Facebook Twitter Email Print Save (The Center Square) – A survey released Monday found that business experts expect prices and inflation to rise at elevated levels for years to come. The National Association for Business Economics released the results of a survey of 48 economic experts who downgraded their growth predictions and projected elevated inflation through the second half of 2023, if not later. “NABE Outlook survey panelists have ramped up their expectations for inflation significantly since September,” said NABE Vice President Julia Coronado, founder and president, MacroPolicy Perspectives LLC. “The core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy costs, is now expected to rise 6.0% from the fourth quarter of 2020 to the fourth quarter of 2021, compared to the September forecast of a 5.1% increase over the same period." Recent Department of Labor inflation data show the fastest rise in decades. “Nearly three-fourths of respondents – 71% – anticipate that the Federal Reserve's preferred gauge of inflation, the change in the core PCE price index, will not cool down to or below the Fed’s target of 2% year-over-year until the second half of 2023 or later,” Coronado added. More from this section Plumber finds money in the walls of Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church Plumber finds money in the walls of Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church Hawaii flood threat, Minnesota snow, and cold temperatures for the northern Continental US Hawaii flood threat, Minnesota snow, and cold temperatures for the northern Continental US Rep. Ilhan Omar shares death threat voicemail she received Rep. Ilhan Omar shares death threat voicemail she received Experts do expect wages to rise as well and predict the U.S. will reach full employment likely in 2022 or 2023. The Federal Reserve has signaled it is considering interest rate changes to address inflation but has taken no dramatic steps so far. In May, the surveyed NABE experts projected 6.7% economic growth for 2021. They have since downgraded their prediction to 4.9%. Republicans have laid the blame for inflation at the feet of President Joe Biden for increased federal spending. However, he has argued his Build Back Better spending plan would address the problem, a claim critics dispute. “Inflation has gone up every month of Joe Biden’s presidency,” said Rep. Elise Stefanik, R-N.Y. “This is a tax on every American.” This article originally ran on thecentersquare.com. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Tags Inflation Federal Reserve Economic Growth Economics Commerce Economic Expert Prediction Expert National Association For Business Economics Locations Illinois Chicago TownNews.com Content Exchange Latest e-Edition News-Argus News-Argus To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. Most Popular  Articles Vehicle slams into bank, injures woman All aboard: Polar Express starts its run Saturday Jernigan Furniture opens Smithfield showroom Police blotter Lamms bequeath $1M to WCC Foundation Princeton advances to state playoff semis with win over St. Pauls Police blotter Police investigate shooting New program helps residents pay water bills Library board recommends closing Fremont branch Stocks Market Data by TradingView Sections News Sports Local Events Opinion Obituaries Announcements e-Edition Online Features Services Subscription Services Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Promote Your Event Email Alerts Search Weather Archives Contact Information site-logo 109 E. Ash St. Goldsboro, NC 27530 Phone: 919-739-7809 Email: support@newsargus.com    © Copyright 2021 The Goldsboro News-Argus, 109 E. Ash St. Goldsboro, NC | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.