 Arrest made in alleged chase and shooting incident on Thanksgiving Day in Trinity Petruce Jean-Charles Jill Doss-Raines The Courier-Tribune An arrest has been made in a shooting and vehicle theft incident that occurred in Trinity in late November. Derek William Stockwell, 42, no address given, has been charged with felony assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill, according to a Randolph County Sheriff's Office report.  Stockwell is accused of shooting a person and taking his vehicle after allegedly chasing him on Highway 62, according to witnesses and the sheriff's report. Guilford County Sheriff’s Office arrested Stockwell in their jurisdiction on Saturday, Dec. 4. He was transported to the Guilford County Detention Center where the magistrate issued a $75,000 secured bond and set a first appearance for Dec. 15 in Randolph County District Court. This incident is still under investigation and additional charges may be forthcoming. During the investigation, it was learned that the victim had been shot through the rear window of the vehicle and that the incident most likely occurred at or near Trindale Foods. In the first report of the incident in November, the Randolph County Sheriff's office responded to a call from a Dollar General in Trinity about an assault and gunshot wound on Nov. 25 at 9 a.m. The caller reported that the victim came to the store asking for help saying he had been shot and his vehicle stolen by the attacker. When the deputies arrived at the store, the victim described the stolen vehicle as an older, green Jeep Cherokee, reportedly occupied by at least two suspects. Patrol deputies later found the victim’s vehicle abandoned on Sabine Street. Deputies and neighboring agencies searched the area for the suspect vehicle. Randolph County EMS responded and transported the victim to an area hospital. A motive for the shooting was not provided. Petruce Jean-Charles is a Government Watchdog Reporter and Jill Doss-Raines is a Trending Topics senior reporter. Contact Petruce at pjeancharles@gannett.com and follow @PetruceKetsia on Twitter. Contact Jill at jill.doss-raines@the-dispatch.com. 