 What South Carolina football should be concerned about most in North Carolina at Duke's Mayo Bowl Cory Diaz Greenville News COLUMBIA – For its first bowl game in three seasons, South Carolina landed in the Duke’s Mayo Bowl, taking on North Carolina, a restoking the embers on an old rivalry that was played annually more than 50 years ago. Most recently, the two locked horns in the 2019 season opener and the Tar Heels edged the Gamecocks, 24-20, in dramatic fashion. The latest installment will take place Dec. 30 at 11:30 a.m. ET (ESPN) in the same stadium as the 2019 opener, Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte. Plenty has changed in two years for both teams. Shane Beamer is now the head coach at South Carolina, leading the team to a 6-6 record and bowl eligibility in his first year in Columbia, while Mack Brown has seen his North Carolina team struggle with consistency in 2021. 'It's so valuable':Shane Beamer impresses Frank Beamer by leading South Carolina to bowl game in first year Hope remains for USC:South Carolina closes regular season with bad loss to Clemson. Here's why hope remains. Nov 11, 2021; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA; North Carolina Tar Heels running back Ty Chandler (19) runs after a catch against the Pittsburgh Panthers during the second quarter at Heinz Field. Mandatory Credit: Charles LeClaire-USA TODAY Sports The Tar Heels still were a preseason top 10 selection and they still have talent. What should concern the Gamecocks in their matchup with UNC? North Carolina quarterback Sam Howell and his propensity to run Howell entered his senior season this year rated as the top quarterback prospect for the 2022 NFL draft. The North Carolina gunslinger hasn’t quite performed up to that benchmark, but he’s still a dangerous player who can cause plenty of problems for South Carolina’s defense. The biggest area where Howell can be effective is with his legs. He has rushed for more than 700 yards with nine touchdowns this season, adding an element to the UNC’s offense that USC defensive coordinator Clayton White and his staff will have to account for. Containing Howell in the pocket will be paramount for the Gamecocks defense. UNC Tar Heels 1-2 punch of Sam Howell, Ty Chandler What makes Howell’s ability to run hurs you that much more is that his running back can hit the big play on you at any time. Ty Chandler, a former Tennessee tailback, has thrived since transferring to Chapel Hill after the 2020 season. Chandler has amassed 1,063 rushing yards with 13 scores, completing a potent rushing attack for North Carolina. Gang-tackling and filling the right gaps along the line, which the Gamecocks have had issues with at times in 2021, will be key. North Carolina ranks inside top 20 in third-down conversion Filling the right gaps and efficient tackling is important against UNC because the offense has been one of FBS’ best in sustaining drives. The Heels rank 19th in the country in converting on third downs, at a 45.5 percent. South Carolina’s defense has struggled on third down, allowing opponents to convert 42 percent of the time. The Gamecocks need to reverse that trend. North Carolina pass rush Far and away the strength of a Tar Heels defense that has given up 30 points or more in eight of their 12 games has been their ability to rush the quarterback. Linebacker Tomon Fox, who was second in the ACC in sacks in conference games with 6.5, has led the charge for UNC’s blitz packages and pressure. UNC’s linebacking corps has recorded 15.5 sacks. Defensive tackle Myles Murphy has also had a solid season in the middle, racking up four sacks. South Carolina will need a clean game from its offensive line for whoever plays quarterback to give the team a shot at winning the Duke’s Mayo Bowl. Cory Diaz covers the South Carolina Gamecocks for The Greenville News as part of the USA Today Network. Follow his work for all things Gamecocks on Twitter: @CoryDiaz_TGN 