Home News Sports Obituaries Opinion Community Lifestyles Money Pages Classifieds Autos Homes Jobs Public Notices Search... Toggle navigation Index Journal Logo Next Up NEXT UP PHOTOS: Ninety Six parade	 PHOTOS: Ninety Six parade Hundreds of people lined the streets in Ninety Six on Saturd… TOP STORY Holly, jolly Christmas in Greenwood By ROBERT JORDAN and GREG K. DEAL rjordan@indexjournal.com, gdeal@indexjournal.com Dec 4, 2021 Comments 1 of 34 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Holiday cheer was easy to find over the weekend. You just had to know where to look. Several Christmas-themed events brought hundreds of people out across the Lakelands to celebrate, shop and have a good time. For city officials and business owners, it was warm weather and large crowds. For Santa Claus, it was smiles and memories. “A lot of the families have come for years and we’ve watched their children grow up. Santa remembers the kids and they remember him,” said Lara Hudson, the city director of community development, who helped organize Saturday’s Santa on Main event. Last year, the only thing that took place was the photo session, she said. This year, more events took place. She said she’s glad to have everyone come out. So was Santa, who has visited Greenwood for years to talk with children, hand out candy and pose for photos. His favorite part of visiting is seeing children grow up over the years. He recalled one girl who comes back each year, and he has seen a collage of pictures of her growing up over eight years. He said he hopes to see her again this year. He smiled as he recalled seeing a family of eight all in matching pajamas. Despite all the attention, he does get tired. “By the end of December, I’m ready for a break,” he said. “I tell kids I usually sleep in on Christmas Day because I had a busy night. They always laugh.” The Santa Claus PJ Party was a breeze. Saint Nick made his entrance Friday into a packed room at the Arts Center of Greenwood, but a few kids were too busy dancing to notice. Most, however, got into the spirit of the event with some songs and candy canes handed out by Santa and Mrs. Claus. Some kids tried to take home balloons containing shiny pieces of paper until a parent told them, “No they’re decorations; put them back.” During Saturday’s event, two children engaged in a bit of roughhousing that might jeopardize their place on the nice list. A few hundred children took photos with Santa. Most were enthusiastic and some were organized, such as a boy who brought his Christmas list to show Mr. Claus. Other children demonstrated severe separation anxiety, which prompted their parents to realize Christmas photos would likely have to wait another year. One girl sobbed even before she was taken to Santa Claus. Amazingly, she calmed down long enough for a picture after her father held her briefly. She didn’t say “no” to a candy cane from Mrs. Claus. Neither did one boy who took a candy cane offered by Mrs. Claus and started to leave. His father reminded him, “What do you say?” He turned toward Mrs. Claus and said “Thank you.” Vendors at the Christmas Market enjoyed pleasant weather. Several who attended a November holiday market that was marred by freezing cold and blustery winds that flung merchandise away breathed a sigh of relief. Business was good for many vendors as hundreds of people milled around. Haley Wallace with the Painted Pyro sets up a table regularly at farmers markets. She said after barely an hour of business Saturday, she had already exceeded her usual sales. Perhaps the best testimonial was given to Kimberly Ready of Bearwick Candles. A woman piped in: “This woman is freaking amazing!” Ready developed her home-based candle-making business during the pandemic. “I loved the creative process of making them with my family,” she said. It became a passion project and then she starting selling. “Who doesn’t love candles? They make you feel warm and cozy,” she said. Also making people warm and cozy is that 25% of the profits go to programs to help woman fight addiction. Ready, who operates Oaks Recovery with her husband, said $1,000 was raised in three months for the program. Hundreds of people lined the streets Saturday in Ninety Six to see the Christmas parade. Many kids were dressed in Christmas outfits as they waved to parade participants and rushed to the street to scoop up candy that was tossed to them. To cap off a weekend of holiday events, the Uptown Christmas Parade in Greenwood brought crowds flocking to Main Street. More than 60 floats and groups signed up to be in the parade, filling Uptown with cheer and capping it off with a visit from Santa Claus himself, waving down at the gathered families from atop his sleigh. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.  1:051206 PJ PARTY 1206 PJ PARTY ROBERT JORDAN | INDEX-JOURNALDec 4, 2021 Comments Tags Christmas Santa Claus Commerce Economics Christianity Cheer Photo Holiday Uptown Christmas Parade Lara Hudson Recommended for you Lakelands Connector Rice Elementary Student-Athletes of the Month Rice Elementary Student-Athletes of the Month Dec 3, 2021 Women in Manufacturing: ‘This is Where the Money Is!’ Women in Manufacturing: ‘This is Where the Money Is!’ Dec 3, 2021 Little River Electric Co-Op and CoBank contribute to the Abbeville Promise Little River Electric Co-Op and CoBank contribute to the Abbeville Promise Dec 3, 2021 263rd Army Air and Missile Defense Command promotes Maj. Gen. Rice 263rd Army Air and Missile Defense Command promotes Maj. Gen. Rice Dec 3, 2021 Latest News  +4Raiders' playoff hopes take hit after 4th loss in 5 games Raiders' playoff hopes take hit after 4th loss in 5 games  +7Stocks rise broadly on Wall Street, travel companies rebound Stocks rise broadly on Wall Street, travel companies rebound  +3Florida's Billy Napier embraces 'scared money' catchphrase Florida's Billy Napier embraces 'scared money' catchphrase  +3Broncos back in last place after another meltdown vs Chiefs Broncos back in last place after another meltdown vs Chiefs Studies: Trump tax cuts helped lower income families, Build Back Better helps wealthier Americans Studies: Trump tax cuts helped lower income families, Build Back Better helps wealthier Americans Most Popular  Articles Additional law enforcement will be at GHS tomorrow after 'inappropriate messages' Up for auction: 1850s octagonal plantation home near Bradley. Greenwood woman faces domestic violence charge Driver dies after plowing into back of truck in McCormick County Shipley staff serve up donuts at grand opening Report: Man stabbed in chest during argument with woman Greenwood woman faces burglary charge Report: Girl, 14, reports man inappropriately touched her Police: Ammo in toaster oven triggers alarm at Morningside Free spirits: Paranormal investigation team hopes for answers in Abbeville 2021 Readers' Choice Winners 2021 Readers' Choice Awards & the winners are! See our Special Readers Choice section here State News Power shifts; Alexander now South Carolina Senate president Power shifts; Alexander now South Carolina Senate president SC Senate appears poised to approve new districts SC Senate appears poised to approve new districts SC prosecutor lets people trade toys for community service SC prosecutor lets people trade toys for community service EXPLAINER: Stuck jet stream, La Nina causing weird weather EXPLAINER: Stuck jet stream, La Nina causing weird weather Before redistricting, change of power coming in SC Senate Before redistricting, change of power coming in SC Senate Sections News Your Lakelands Lifestyles Local Events Sports Money Obituaries Opinion Multimedia Online Features Services Subscription Services Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Promote Your Event Search Weather Contact Information indexjournal.com 610 Phoenix St Greenwood, SC 29646 Phone: 864-223-1411 Email: webmaster@indexjournal.com Follow Us     © Copyright 2021 Index-Journal, 610 Phoenix St Greenwood, SC | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies 