SUBSCRIBE Herald-Advocate NEWS SPORTS CONTACT US PHOTO E-EDITION DECEMBER 6, 2021 Search for: SEARCH … HOMENEWSWomen of Destiny to present play on Saturday at Marlboro Civic Center Women of Destiny to present play on Saturday at Marlboro Civic Center December 2, 2021 gpsadmin News, Top Stories 0 Comments By Jacqueline Hough 			 				  			 		 With the Christmas holidays beginning, the Women of Destiny want to remind people of the reason for the season while helping a local non-profit. The group will present the play, Glory Train, at 4 p.m. Saturday at the Marlboro Civic Center, 106 Clyde Street in Bennettsville. The cost is a $7 donation. Senior citizens can attend for free. Masks are required. Women of Destiny will donate to the Coalition for Family Enrichment. “It is to let them know that Jesus is the reason for the season,” said Minister Linda Goodman. “It is not about shopping. It is not about materialistic things. It is about Jesus.” Marian David, who is helping with the play, said the cast is comprised of the cast of the play is from almost 10 different churches around the county. “They work together in ministry to spread the good news about God’s love,” she said. “They believe in love in action.” David added that the play is fun and humorous with a spiritual point about how people live their lives. After the play, there will be Christmas songs and door prizes. David said everyone would receive a special gift at the end. Claudette Hooker, director of the play, described “Glory Train” as having a group of women who consider themselves good Christian women but were self-righteous. Hooker encouraged people to come out to the play. “I think they are going to enjoy it,” she said. “There is some good acting.” Goodman also encouraged people to attend the play. “It was a great way to kick off the holiday season,” Goodman said. For more information, call Goodman at 843-842-3722, Minster Von Conley at 843-206-8446, and Sister Shirley Thomas at 843-439-3404. PREVIOUS Clio Christmas Parade is Saturday at 11 a.m. NEXT Children’s author launches book and gives back Today's weather in Bennettsville E-Edition Herald Advocate 