SKIP TO CONTENTJUMP TO MAIN NAVIGATION AND LOGINNav view searchNavigationHOMELATESTARCHIVE Font sizeBigger.Reset.SmallerSearch Search... Logo You are here: Home In The News Latest Edition Archives News Links Contact Us This Site Home Login Site Administrator Login Form User Name Password Remember Me  Forgot your password? Forgot your username? All-Lakelands Tigers Make All-Lakelands Five members of the 2021 Saluda Tiger football team have been named All-Lakelands. They received their plaques at a banquet in Greenwood Mon., Nov. 22. Featured speaker was former Gamecock and New York Giant linebacker Corey Miller. Pictured, L to R, are Javarious Stevens - defensive back, Tyleke Mathis- wide receiver, Sam Espinoza- kicker, Coach Stewart Young, Kenmane Brunson - linebacker; Jonah McCary - quarterback. Mathis and Espinoza made their second appearance on the team. Stevens is the only All-Lakelands performer who will not return for 2021. LAWTER Arrest Made   November 22, around 2:00 am, officers with the Saluda Police Department conducted a traffic stop near Mack Street.   The driver of the vehicle, Dustin V. Lawter, fled from the vehicle on foot. Three other occupants were taken into custody.   The Sheriff’s Office responded and a joint search began for Lawter. Several hours later, Lawter was taken into custody by the Sheriff’s Office and Saluda Police Department. He is currently incarcerated at the Saluda County Detention Center where he is charged with numerous drug offenses’ to include Trafficking Methamphetamine.   Sheriff Price and Chief Holmes are grateful for the great working relationship between the Sheriff’s Office and Police Department. Pay $0 for Classes at Piedmont Tech   There are a lot of great jobs available in the region. Many of these opportunities require a college education or advanced training. For that reason, Piedmont Technical College (PTC) is fully removing the tuition cost barrier for current and future students who enroll through summer 2022.   “We don’t want anything standing in the way of your pursuit of a new or better career path,” said Dr. Hope E. Rivers, president of PTC “Every single credit program we offer is now eligible for 100% tuition coverage. It’s truly a historic opportunity.”   Made possible by a variety of funding sources, including federal, state, local and community aid, PTC’s no-cost tuition option is available to South Carolina residents with a desire to begin or continue their education. Eligible students must also enroll at PTC in a minimum of six credit hours (typically two courses).   “This step will ensure that citizens in our service region have access to all the benefits a college education provides,” said Dr. Rivers. “When they leave us, they will be equipped to seek good jobs or pursue further education.”   For more information, visit www.ptc.edu/free.   Delegation Meeting   Chairman, Sen. Billy Garrett, has called an organizational meeting of  the Saluda County Legislative Delegation  on Friday, December 3, 2021  at 10:00am  in the Delegation Admin-istrator’s office  located at 111 Law Range Street in Saluda.      The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the appointments/reappointments of our Boards and Commissions.   Other delegation members are Senators Shane Massey and Nicky Setzler, and Representatives Bill Clyburn and Cal Forrest. Volunteers Recognized VOLUNTEERS RECOGNIZED - Volunteers Appreciation Day at Piedmont Agency on Aging in Saluda was observed  Fri., Nov. 20. Volunteers recognized were  (not in order of photo)  are  Tami Bodie, Mary Andrews,  Albertha Harp Annette Harris, Annie Hunter, Erline Long,  Lynette Tolen,  Jackie Banks, Kathy Anderson,  Martha Keeler, Jean Kelleher, Felicia  Kinard, Cliff Wells, James Etheredge,  Grady Clark, Charles Gallman, Shirley Pugh, Lois Gibson, Rev. Mildred Walker,  Thomas Bryant, Cyteria Gantt, bus driver, and Site Manager, Janice Coleman. (Standard-Sentinel photo) Counties with highest COVID-19 infection rates in South Carolina   A recent survey by Stacker.com determined Saluda County has the 41st lowest COVID-19 infection rate in South Carolina   As has been true throughout America’s COVID-19 history, every state—and every county therein—has its own COVID-19 story, driven by local policies and behaviors.   The United States as of Nov. 16 had reached 764,440 COVID-19-related deaths and 47.2 million COVID-19 cases , according to Johns Hopkins University. As of Feb. 2, more Americans had been vaccinated for COVID-19 than had been in-fected.   But as vaccination rates lagged over the summer, new surges of COVID-19 came. More than 80% of these cases by late July were caused by the Delta variant, which is more contagious than the original virus. This has resulted in growing rates of community transmission and—especially in areas with lower vaccination rates—increasing rates of hospitalization and death. Stacker compiled a list of the counties with highest COVID-19 infection rates in South Carolina using data from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services . Counties are ranked by the highest infection rate per 100k residents within the past week as of Nov. 15, 2021.   Cumulative cases per 100k served as a tiebreaker Keep reading to see whether your county ranks among the highest COVID-19 infection rates in S.C.   The rankings for Saluda County and adjacnet counties are as followsL   #42. Saluda County, SC –   New cases per 100k in the past week: 34 (7 new cases, -59% change from previous week)   – Cumulative cases per 100k: 12,568 (2,573 total cases) — 28.5% less cases per 100k residents than South Carolina   – Cumulative deaths per 100k: 269 (55 total deaths) — 0.4% less deaths per 100k residents than South Carolina   – Population that is fully vaccinated: 28.1% (5,758 fully vaccinated)   — 44.5% lower vaccination rate than South Carolina   #31. Aiken County, SC – New cases per 100k in the past week: 65 (111 new cases, -23% change from previous week)   #28. Lexington County, SC – New cases per 100k in the past week: 69 (207 new cases, -34% change from previous week)   #18. Newberry County, SC – New cases per 100k in the past week: 81 (31 new cases, -49% change from previous week)   #10. Greenwood County, SC – New cases per 100k in the past week: 97 (69 new cases, -49% change from previous week)    #8. Edgefield County, SC – New cases per 100k in the past week: 103 (28 new cases, +115% change from previous week)   The highest rate in S.C. belongs to Union County, with 223 new cases per 100k in the past week. Saluda Christmas Information   Have you everwondered how it all gets done? How Santa gets in and out of millions of homes all in one night? Let’s just say he has a little help. The operation has its challenges, but we’re always prepared. Our mission statement is: Get in. Get out. Never be noticed.” -Prep and Landing   This year the Town of Saluda has been asked to assist with the prep and landing for Santa’s arrival! We need all the elves’ help we can get! To sign up to be a vendor or be in the parade please use the link: http://www.townofsaluda.com/ festivals   If you have any questions please call me at 803-480-0249   -This year the Prep & Landing team needs a little help preparing for Santa’s arrival! We need all the elves’ we can get! If you would like to participate we would love to see all the elves working in your businesses/schools! Be creative and have fun! Once your elves’ arrive please let me know and we will send out a special guest! This special guest loves to take pictures so be ready to smile because it’s Jingle Time!!!   -Saluda Operation Christmas Parade “Jingle around the Block” will be held on Saturday December 11, 2021 at 11:00am. We would like to have many entries and lots of participation. The lineup will start on West Butler Avenue near the schools. Look for the route to be published in the Saluda Standard Sentinel as the parade time draws near. We encourage you to have your vehicle or float decorated. Please make sure people in your entry are visible. The theme for this year’s parade is: “Operation Christmas.” If you have any questions about the parade, or the theme, please contact Mandy K Hess at Town Hall at 864-445-3522 or at hess@townofsaluda.com. We encourage vendors, restaurants, churches, and all stores to decorate and participate!   Please complete the  entry form and return it by December 6th, 2021 to Town Hall, found online http://www.townofsaluda. com/festivals, 100 S Jefferson Street, or fax to 864-445-4928 Attn: Mandy.   Please be aware: if we do not receive your entry prior to the deadline your float may not be acknowledged by the announcer! November Council Meeting Sheriff Says Employees Need Higher Salaries   At the Nov. 8 meeting, Saluda County Sheriff Josh Price urged County Council to considered increasing the pay for all members of his department, from detention center workers to deputies.   Price said he is losing employees, because surrounding counties pay law enforcement personal $8,000-10,000 more a year. He cited one county that had used Covid relief funds to increase salaries by 25 per cent across the board.   Price said he can’t blame his employees, who can drive 15 to 30 minutes to make much more money.   “They have to look out for their families.”   Before asking increases for all employees, Price told of the problem he has had in hiring the replacement for the recently retired administrative assistant.   “An 18-year-old can make more money at a fast food restaurant, that what we pay for this position,” Price said.   The job is more of an office manager that an administrative assistant, he said, relaying that the employee is is regular contact with the FBI, SLED and neighboring agencies.   Price said he had rearranged his budget so more money could be paid for the position. He just needed Council permission.   Council voted to discuss the matter in executive session. Out of executive session Council voted to increase the pay grade for the administrative  assistant from ten to 12.   Most of the earlier part of the meeting was taken up with public hearings and readings on ordinances.   Public hearings were held on the following:   An ordinance approving the transfer of real property located at to 101 Civic Street, Saluda, to the YMCA.   An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of a fee-in-lieu of ad valorem taxes by and between Saluda County and Project Maple Leaf. The ordinance includes having Project Maple Leaf in a multi-county business park.   An ordinance providing for the naming of roads and the addressing of properties in Saluda County.   An ordinance to repeal No. 11-91, naming of roads and the addressing  of properties in Saluda County.   After the public hearing, third reading was to the fee in lieu of ordinance, second reading to the YMCA and road ordinances, second reading to an ordinance to adopt a false fire alarm ordinance for the County of Saluda. This ordinance it to encourage business and home owners to maintain alarms systems properly.   In new business, Council gave first reading to an ordinance to lease T-Hangars at the Saluda County Airport, first reading to repeal the old T-Hangar leasing ordinance, first reading to a fee in lieu of ad valorem taxes for Project Thunder, and passed a resolution authorizing the assignment by Roya Foods of a 2013 fee in lieu of ad valorem taxes agreement by and between Roya Foods and Saluda County to Palmetto Gourmet Foods, Inc. and other related matters. Council approved  the 2020-2021 audit financial statements report  by David Enzastiga, CPA, Rish & Enzastiga Firm.   After the executive session, Council voted to purchase the building a 307 West Butler Ave. from set aside funds, plus $60,000 from the Public Buildings account. WREATH LAYING - Left to right, American Legion Post 65 Commmander John Hook, and guest speaker CMD Jim Moore, U.S. Navy, retired, lay the  wreath at Saluda County’s memorial to the war dead, following the Nov. 11 Veterans Day program at the Saluda Theater. (Standard-Sentinel photo) Christmas Craft Show Returns   The annual Saluda Christmas Craft Show will be held Saturday, November 20th—10:00 AM to 5:00 PM and Sunday, November 21st— 1:00PM to 5:00 PM at the Saluda National Guard Armory.      For more information or an application contact Johnnie Stevens (864-980-8760), Susan S. Berry (864-980-4557) or Stacie S, Goff (864-980-9995.  Applications may also be picked up at The Hair Strand on S. Main Street. October Court Cases Term Features One Jury Trial One jury trial took up most of the time in the recently completed term of Saluda County General Sessions Court.   In the trial Tommy Gene Williams, Jr. was charged with criminal sexual conduct with a minor, 1st degree, and  criminal sexual conduct with a minor, 2nd degree. He was found not guilty on both charges.   Sentenced on guilty pleas were the following:   Augustin Ensaldo-Martinez, public disorderly conduct, 30 days or $100. Anthony Lavon Holmes, criminal sexual conduct with a minor, 3rd degree, 10 years.   Ricardo Moreno Vasquez, domestic violence, 3rd degree, 90 days. Marcus Andre Govan, use of 911 unlawfully, seven days. Kendrick Cortez-Debris Daniel, unlawfully carrying a pistol, one year & $1000, suspended to 90 days or $250; unlawfully carrying a pistol, one years, suspended to six days.   Triquan Martez Lott,  unlawfully carrying a pistol, one year & $1000, suspended to 30 days or $100, one year probation. Dennis Truitt Atchley, failure to comply with lawful direction of police, fireman or crossing guard, 30 days or $100.   Charzavia Keaonte Long, assault & battery 2nd degree, three years. Gertez Marque Walker, failure to register, 90 days, upon service of 10 days or $200, suspended to six months probation.   William Arther Jenkins, possession of less than one gram of meth, cocaine base, first offense, three years and $3000, suspended to $100 and one hear probation. Dionte Tyree Harris, possession of other controlled substance, 90 days or $250, six months probation.   James Carson Sellers, possession of cocaine, 1st offense, three years and $3000, upon service of 49 days and $100, suspended to two years probation. Lashawn Willie Chinn III, failure to stop for a blue light, no injury or death, 1st offense, three years and $500, suspended to 83 days and $100, one year probation,   Ashtin Dale Ritchie, malicious injury to property, $2000 or less, 30 months, suspended to six days. Tristan Caleb Vinson, failure to comply with lawful direction of police, fireman or crossing guard, 30 days or $100.   Leo Abney, possession of other controlled substance, 90 days,  suspended to one probation. Fred Holt Duncan, public disorderly conduct, 30 days or $100. Cory Neil Duncan, public disorderly conduct, 30 days or $100. Saluda Christmas Parade Announced Saluda Operation Christmas Parade “Jingle around the Block” will be held on Saturday December 11, 2021 at 11:00am.   We would like to have many entries and lots of participation. The lineup will start on West Butler Avenue near the schools. Look for the route to be published in the Saluda Standard Sentinel as the parade time draws near. We encourage you to have your vehicle or float decorated. Please make sure people in your entry are visible.   The theme for this year’s parade is: “Operation Christmas.” If you have any questions about the parade, or the theme, please contact Mandy K Hess at Town Hall at 864-445-3522 or at hess@town ofsaluda.com.   We encourage vendors, restaurants, churches, and all stores to decorate and participate!   Please sign up online http://www.townofsaluda.com/festivals, 100 S Jefferson Street, or fax to 864-445-4928 Attn: Mandy by December 6th. Please be aware: if we do not receive your entry prior to the deadline your float may not be acknowledged by the announcer!   CMD MOORE Veterans Day Program Set Veterans Day began as  Armistice Day ,on the “eleventh hour of the elev-enth day of the eleventh month” of 1918, and is a annual  federal holiday marked on  November 11.    Veterans Day is distinct from Memorial Day, a U.S. public holiday celebrated in May. Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, while Memorial Day honors those who had died while in military service. No apostrophe is used with Veterans Day because it is a day that honors all veterans.   United States Navy Commander Jim Moore (Ret) will be the Keynote Speaker at the local American Legion Post 65 Veterans Day Celebration.  Some of Commander Moore’s decorations include:  Defense Meritorious Medal, Navy Meritorious Medal two awards, Navy Commendation Medal two awards, National Defense Service Medal, Humanitarian Service Medal, Southwest Asian Service medal, Sea Service Medal Seven Awards,   Overseas Service Medal, and Service Warfare Office. Commander Moore started out as enlisted in February 1975, and for the next twenty years progressed through the ranks.   Upon retirement, CDR Moore accepted the position as Senior Naval Science Instructor at Saluda High School, where he started the Navy Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp (NJROTC) Program.  He remained in the position for the next 17 years.   Come and help us celebrate Veterans Day! The event is free, open to the public at the Saluda Theater on Law Range.  Please mark your calendar. November 11, 4 pm, Saluda Theater on Law Range, Saluda, SC 29138. Page 1 of 69 StartPrev12345678910NextEnd Copyright 2016 Saluda Standard-Sentinel.