 'A lot of honor:' Clemson obtains historical marker commemorating Littlejohn Grill Alexis Hamilton Greenville News The City of Clemson purchased a historical marker in honor of the admired nightclub the Littlejohn Grill. The grill opened after World War II and stayed open until the 1960s, operating as a spot where mostly Black Clemson residents would hang out. During the time it was opened, the grill saw many blues, jazz and rock ’n’ roll entertainers such as James Brown, Harry Belafonte, and Ray Charles.  Conveniently situated between Charlotte and Atlanta, the Littlejohn Grill was a part of the "Chitlin Circuit," a string of venues where Black entertainers were allowed to perform. Owned by Horace Littlejohn, the club was closed and the building was eventually demolished in the 1980s. In its place is Littlejohn Community Center. Director of Littlejohn Community Center Adraine Garner said she was pleased to know that even after his death, the Clemson community is commemorating her grandfather's work. “It was just a lot of honor,” said Garner. “You know my grandfather worked hard. It just shows that people still have respect for my grandfather, still in the 21st century.” Littlejohn not only owned the grill, but a restaurant in Central as well as a motel, which provided a place for African Americans to stay before the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The former nightclub turned community center emphasizing education was a full-circle moment for Garner as her grandfather did so much for the community and was also involved in education. Clemson agreed to pay $2,500 for the marker that will be placed in front of the community center displaying content on each side. The public works department will install the marker once the city receives it. Reach reporter Alexis Hamilton at ahamilton@greenvillenews.com or 864-404-7487 and on Twitter @producedbylex.  We Noticed You're Blocking Ads We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism. Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing. Unblock Ads Go Ad Free Already a subscriber? Please sign in.