Chattanoogan.com - Chattanooga's source for breaking local news Breaking News Opinion Sports Prep Sports Community Leisuretime Obituaries Classifieds Advertise  Monday, December 6, 2021	52.0°F   overcast   Overcast	 Enter Text Breaking News PILOT For Steam Logistics Gets Approval Of City Industrial Development Board Monday, December 6, 2021 A PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) tax break for Steam Logistics that will save it $502,000 in property taxes over a nine-year period was approved on Monday morning by the city Industrial Development Board. There were six members present on the nine-member board and chairman Jimmy Rodgers recused himself because he is friends with two company owners. The remaining five board members voted in favor. The logistics firm is remodeling the former John Ross Building at Fourth and Market in an $11 million project. The long-vacant property currently pays $29,353 in city taxes per year and, with payments of the school tax on the improvements, it will be around $45,000 the first year of the PILOT. The property taxes will be around $90,000 per year at the end of the PILOT. Jermaine Freeman, city economic development administrator, said Steam had opportunities to expand to other cities where it has offices so the incentive was necessary. Charles Wood of the Chamber of Commerce said Steam is another component of a growing logistics business cluster in Chattanooga. Mr. Rodgers said Kathy Jones has gone off the board, citing other commitments. He said Councilwoman Carol Berz will be choosing her replacement. The chairman said he wanted a continued focus on urging companies that get tax breaks to use local workers on their projects. He also questioned if fees are being charged to developers. Mr. Freeman said they are, and they go into a fund that helps small businesses among other purposes. Mr. Freeman said there is a $1,500 fee for those applying for Tax Increment Financing. He said that is "probably nowhere near high enough." He said the city has had three TIFs and would consider doing more, including both for blighted areas and for under-developed sections. Those in the past include Black Creek in 2012, the extension of MLK Boulevard in 2018 and the East Chattanooga RISING project involving a road extension to the new Nippon paint plant in 2019. TIFs allow public infrastructure and other improvements to be financed up-front and repaid later with tax revenues.     Share2 December 6, 2021 Police Blotter: Man Thinks Ex-Girlfriend Slashed His Tires; Man At Chatt Inn Gets Upset When He Can't Choose His Room December 6, 2021 PILOT For Steam Logistics Gets Approval Of City Industrial Development Board December 6, 2021 Jonathan Conyers Representing Himself In February Trial On Southside Shooting That Left Victim In Critical Condition A man on Vista Drive told police he noticed that the tires on his vehicle were cut/damaged that morning. He said that after reviewing video footage, he saw a female arrive in a black sedan. He ... (click for more) A PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) tax break for Steam Logistics that will save it $502,000 in property taxes over a nine-year period was approved on Monday morning by the city Industrial Development ... (click for more) Jonathan Conyers is representing himself in his upcoming trial set for Feb. 8 for attempted first-degree murder, aggravated assault, reckless endangerment and possession of a firearm in a shooting ... (click for more) Breaking News Police Blotter: Man Thinks Ex-Girlfriend Slashed His Tires; Man At Chatt Inn Gets Upset When He Can't Choose His Room A man on Vista Drive told police he noticed that the tires on his vehicle were cut/damaged that morning. He said that after reviewing video footage, he saw a female arrive in a black sedan. He said he observed the woman around his vehicle and then she left in the black sedan. The video is not clear enough to identify the woman or the vehicle. The man said that he believes the woman ... (click for more) PILOT For Steam Logistics Gets Approval Of City Industrial Development Board A PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) tax break for Steam Logistics that will save it $502,000 in property taxes over a nine-year period was approved on Monday morning by the city Industrial Development Board. There were six members present on the nine-member board and chairman Jimmy Rodgers recused himself because he is friends with two company owners. The remaining five board ... (click for more) Jonathan Conyers Representing Himself In February Trial On Southside Shooting That Left Victim In Critical Condition Jamaal Mayes Sentenced To 48 Years In Prison For Murder Of Willie Bacon In 2017 Latest Bradley County Arrest Report Former U.S. Senator David Perdue Launches Campaign For Georgia Governor Just After Stacey Abrams Announces All Breaking News Articles Opinion The Plight Of The Homeless - And Response (3) I work very closely with the homeless population in our Chattanooga area. My son and I take around 50 meals a week to our friends living in the tent cities. On Wednesday at 9 a.m. I witnessed first hand the Tennessee Department of Transportation destroying everything - my friends' homes and all of their possessions. My friends in the tent cities have always told me that TDOT ... (click for more) Roy Exum: Albom On Oxford I never got to know Mitch Albom back in my sports writer days. We covered some of the same events but other than an occasional “How ya doin’?” the only thing we had in common was he worked at the Detroit Free Press and I was at the Chattanooga News-Free Press. Then Mitch entered our hearts in 1967 with the wonderful book, “Tuesdays with Morrie,” and, man, he was off to the races. ... (click for more) Senator Dole's Secret Kindness To My Dying Dad Investing In Political Effective Results Enjoying Aunt Rosie’s Chili At Zarzour’s Roy Exum: 4,200+ Shot In Chicago All Opinion Articles Sports UTC Men Rout Lipscomb 85-64 The Chattanooga Mocs men's basketball team survived a second-half swing in momentum and continued its winning ways on the road following an 85-64 rout over Lipscomb inside Allen Arena on Sunday evening in Nashville, Tennessee. Chattanooga has now won its last 10 non-conference road games dating back to 2019 and improves its season mark to 7-1 following the victory. Lipscomb ... (click for more) Randy Smith: Vols Heading Back To Music City The Tennessee Volunteers will be seeking their fifth straight bowl game win on December 30th as they take on Big Ten power Purdue in the Music City Bowl in Nashville. The Music City Bowl is nothing new to the Big Orange as the Vols will be making their third appearance in Nashville in their last six bowl contests. The Vols under Derek Dooley lost to North Carolina in 2010, 30-27, ... (click for more) Vols To Meet Purdue In TransPerfect Music City Bowl On Dec. 30 Coach Dee Carter: The Long Run Record 13 SEC Teams Headed For Bowls No. 11/10 Lady Vols Stay Perfect With 64-58 Win Over Virginia Tech All Sports Articles Happenings Life With Ferris: Conover Family Relocates To Signal Mountain And Opens Airbnb Gallery Crowd Of 2,000 Turns Out For Red Bank Christmas Parade Jerry Summers: Murder Of A Wealthy Farmer At Etowah - 1911 National Medal Of Honor Heritage Center Plans Dedication Ceremony For Bricks Of Honor Dec. 11 Swimming Pool At Fall Creek Falls State Park To Reopen All Happenings Articles Dining Six18 Georgia Avenue Opens At Former Jefferson's Site; Cherry Street Brewing Opens At 300 Cherokee Blvd.; Sushi City Makes Debut On Lee Highway Six18 Restaurant & Lounge Opens For Dinner, Brings Upscale Dining To Georgia Avenue Walk-On’s Prepares To Introduce The Taste Of Louisiana To Chattanooga R Market Shares Sweet Treats On Its Grand Opening In Ooltewah Wednesday Food City Starbucks Has Grand Opening Friday All Dining Articles Business Caroline Von Kessler Joins Community Foundation Of Greater Chattanooga As 1st Vice President Of Philanthropy Gas Prices Drop 4.3 Cents In Chattanooga All Business Articles Student Scene Cleveland City Schools' Hal Taylor Celebrated As Tennessee Department Of Education RISE Award Finalist GNTC Honors Fall 2021 Graduates Gallery CSCC Advanced Technology Institute Student Spotlight: Tyler Rikard All Student Scene Articles Church Bob Tamasy: Present, Prominent, Or Preeminent? "In His Presence" Is Topic Sunday At Metro Tab Church All Church Articles Memories Tennessee, World War II And The Tomb Of The Unknown Soldier Linda Moss Mines: An American Soldier Known Only To God Part I All Memories Articles Real Estate RP Homes Has 2 New Consultants Join Its Team Cherith Edwards Featured In Nationwide Mortgage Edition Of Top Agent Magazine All Real Estate Articles Living Well Hutson To Head Partnership’s Victim Support Services Legacy Village Of Cleveland Residents Enjoy Duck Statues Donated By Cleveland Public Arts Committee Jim Coppinger And Tim Kelly Mark Conclusion Of Lung Cancer Awareness Month Gallery All Living Well Articles Outdoors UT Hamilton County Extension Holds Master Gardener Training Classes Starting In January 2021-22 TWRA Winter Trout Stocking Program Underway All Outdoors Articles Breaking News Opinion Sports Community Leisuretime Obituaries Classifieds Advertise Business Church Civic Clubs Living Well Real Estate Student Scene Dining Entertainment Happenings Memories Movies Outdoors Travel About Us news@chattanoogan.com 423.266.2325 © 2021 Privacy Policy