Home News Sports Living Arts & Entertainment Special Sections Classifieds Obituaries The Job Network Coronavirus News Toggle navigation Next Up NEXT UP Brooke and May place Top 10 in World Show	 Brooke and May place Top 10 in World Show Brooke Biles and her horse May have been competing together … FEATURED EDITOR'S PICK Fayetteville Lions dedicate memorial bench for Lion Marshall Arney For the Elk Valley Times Dec 6, 2021 Updated 54 min ago  Facebook Twitter Email Print Save The Fayetteville Lions held a brief dedication ceremony of a park bench Saturday morning paying tribute to Lion Marshall Arney who passed away in December 2019. The bench was purchased through the City of Fayetteville’s Memorial Bench Program. It is located along the greenway path leading to Stone Bridge Park, near the new pedestrian bridge that spans Tanyard Branch where it connects to Norris Creek. Lions bench dedication The Fayetteville Lions held a brief dedication ceremony of a park bench Saturday morning paying tribute to Lion Marshall Arney who passed away in December 2019. The bench was purchased through the City of Fayetteville’s Memorial Bench Program. It is located along the greenway path leading to Stone Bridge Park, near the new pedestrian bridge that spans Tanyard Branch where it connects to Norris Creek. Courtesy photo Marshall Arney Marshall Arney Courtesy photo Fayetteville Lions Club President Myrna Reed welcomed Marshall’s wife Myra, their son, Hugh, daughter, Melanie Pitcock with husband Johnny, and grandchildren Harrison, Olivia and Jack. Several longtime friends of Marshall and many Fayetteville Lions were in attendance. Lion Blake Copple gave dedication remarks which paid tribute to Marshall’s 50 years of dedicated service in the Fayetteville Club. Lions 2 Courtesy photo “Marshall believed that acts of kindness, both big and small, could change lives,” Copple said. And that’s just what he did as a Lion. From health fair eyesight screenings to quarterly highway litter pickups to our Diabetes Awareness roadblocks to grilling burgers for our football jamboree and steaks for our annual king/queen Lion cookout to selling sports program ads – he could be counted on to do his part and a little extra.” Copple also recounted that for many years right through the last tournament in 2019, Marshall served as chair of the Fayetteville Lions Club’s annual weeklong “Tip-Off” Basketball Classic. He noted that Marshall also chaired the club’s Historical/Museum Committee and frequently served as a Tail Twister “bringing humor and good cheer, as well as blessed brevity to their meetings.” Copple further remembered how Marshall loved to work on Lions construction projects, co-chairing the recent build of a picnic pavilion at Kids Park and the creation of a Lions History room at the Museum. He also rebuilt a wheelchair-bound citizen’s access bridge after the 2014 tornado, an effort that was cited in the Lions International magazine and read by 1.4 million Lions worldwide. Marshall earned many Lions awards during his 50 years including the Melvin Jones Fellow, Lindsey-Jennings Fellow, Fayetteville Lion of the Year and Lion of the Decade, and District 12-S Lion of the Year. He served in a variety of leadership roles ranging from first vice district governor, district liaison to Lions Services to the Blind in Arkansas, as well as Fayetteville club president from 1974-1975. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Viewed 1 of 3 Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content. Tags Fayetteville Lions Club Jack Building Industry Company Politics Sport Lion Blake Copple Olivia Myra Harrison Lion Bench RECOMMENDED FOR YOU MOST POPULAR  Articles Old Fashioned Christmas: Fayetteville Christmas Parade is Saturday Barbara Sue Sisk Obituary Ann Graham Cashion Obituary Betty Jo Taylor Obituary Model Citizen: Fayetteville man’s Space Shuttle models on display Election Commission votes on precinct locations Gallant-Riverview Funeral Home’s Remembrance Service to be held Thursday Elizabeth T. Jeffries Obituary Marie Todd Obituary Firefighters to hit streets for Toy Drive LOCAL AREA EVENTS DEC 6 COVID Vaccinations Mon, Dec 6, 2021 DEC 6 Fayetteville Arts Center Mon, Dec 6, 2021 DEC 6 Alcoholics Anonymous Mon, Dec 6, 2021 DEC 7 American Legion Post #42 Tue, Dec 7, 2021 DEC 7 Rotary Club Tue, Dec 7, 2021 DEC 7 Fayetteville Knights Chess Club Tue, Dec 7, 2021 DEC 8 COVID Vaccinations Wed, Dec 8, 2021 DEC 9 Alcoholics Anonymous Thu, Dec 9, 2021 DEC 9 Celebrate Recovery (CR) Thu, Dec 9, 2021 DEC 10 COVID Vaccinations Fri, Dec 10, 2021 REGIONAL AREA EVENTS FEATURED BUSINESSES   Find a local business I'm looking for… Preserving the US Postal Service STOCKS Market Data by TradingView SECTIONS News Sports Announcements Arts & Entertainment Living Local Events Obituaries Multimedia Reader Rewards Online Features SERVICES Subscription Services Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Business Directory Promote Your Event Email Alerts Search Weather Matching Grant Program elkvalleytimes.com 418 Elk Avenue North Fayetteville, TN 37334 Phone: 931-433-6151 Email: info@elkvalleytimes.com    © Copyright 2021 Elk Valley Times, 418 Elk Avenue North Fayetteville, TN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 