U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy: 'First fruits' of $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill flowing to Louisiana
Greg Hilburn
Lafayette Daily Advertiser








Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., questions Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra on President Joe Biden's budget requests, at the Capitol in Washington, Thursday, June 10, 2021. Cassidy is working with a bipartisan group of 10 senators negotiating an infrastructure deal with President Joe Biden. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite) ORG XMIT: DCSA135
Louisiana Republican U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy announced Thursday the "first fruits" of the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill have flowed to his home state for drinking water projects.

Cassidy, an architect of the bipartisan bill that won passage last month and was signed into law by President Biden, said $101.2 million has been allocated by the Environmental Protection Agency for this fiscal year.

He said similar amounts will be allocated to the state for water projects through 2026.

"These first fruits of the infrastructure bill are just the first example of the impact this legislation will have for years to come," Cassidy said in an interview with USA Today Network.

Gov. John Bel Edwards hailed Louisiana's first allocation.

“Ensuring that our citizens have access to clean and safe drinking water has always been among my top priorities and this allocation of federal dollars from the (bill) could help many more communities across Louisiana,” Edwards said in a statement.

Louisiana is guaranteed more than $7 billion from the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill and will be eligible for billions more in allocations from the legislation.

The bill allocates about $7.25 billion in guaranteed funding for Louisiana, according to White House figures — $4.8 billion for roads, $1 billion for bridges, $470 million for public transportation, $580 million for water systems and $380 million for other segments like airports, broadband and electric vehicle charging stations.

Cassidy said the first funding for water systems begins meeting a critical need for Louisiana. 

"If you go from New Orleans to Shreveport and all points in between people are concerned about their aging water systems and the ability to provide clean drinking water," he said.

As an example of the need, the Louisiana Water Sector Commission has 600 applications seeking $1 billion in water system and sewer improvements for $300 million in previous federal funding.

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
“Across the state, local officials prioritize investment in clean water," Cassidy said in a press release. "Often times their tax base cannot support the repairs that need to be done. These taxpayer dollars coming from the federal government can make these repairs, can help these towns, can provide clean water.”

The $101 million will go toward improving drinking water infrastructure, including replacing lead pipes, removing contaminants and ensuring rural and underserved communities have clean drinking water.

Greg Hilburn covers state politics for the USA TODAY Network of Louisiana. Follow him on Twitter @GregHilburn1.