Festive Food and Drink Events This December in Greater Phoenix JULIE LEVIN DECEMBER 1, 2021 6:06AM Un[Wine]d this month at the LDV Winery Tasting Room. Un[Wine]d this month at the LDV Winery Tasting Room. LDV Winery The stress of the upcoming holiday and the extra family time might make you feel like you need a drink, so perhaps it's no coincidence that most of the events on our December list include some alcohol. Don't worry, there's some good food planned, too, like a chocolate class, a grain-to-farm-to-table dinner, and a three-course dinner with wine pairings under the stars. All of it adds up to a fun last month of 2021. Have a good one! An Evening of Wine and Fine Dining Thursday, December 2 Wrigley Mansion 2501 East Telawa Trail Wrigley Mansion is home to more than 12,000 bottles of wine, so it's only fitting that guests can enjoy monthly wine dinners curated by wine director Paola Embry. December's dinner will be hosted by Hartford Family Winery and includes a five-course meal paired with select wines. Master sommelier Michael Jordan will serve as the guest speaker for the evening, starting at 6 p.m. Tickets are available for $125 per person. Wines from Merkin Vineyards will be offered with each course at Dinner Under the Stars in Scottsdale. - TRAVIS MATREYEK Wines from Merkin Vineyards will be offered with each course at Dinner Under the Stars in Scottsdale. Travis Matreyek Holiday Winemaker Dinner Under the Stars Thursday, December 2 Scottsdale Waterfront Plaza 7135 East Camelback Road, Scottsdale Wine and culinary enthusiasts are invited to a three-course meal under the stars presented by LDV Winery and Merkin Vineyards. It will take place at the Scottsdale Waterfront Plaza off Stetson Drive adjacent to the LDV Winery Tasting Room from 6 to 9 p.m. The tentative menu includes a winter salad with local produce and cheese with noble bread and LDW Winery olive oils and balsamic; wine-braised short ribs with ricotta gnocchi; and chocolate flourless torte with ganache and raspberry coulis, plus wine pairings. The event is $155 per person. Making Chocolate for the Home Cook Class Saturday, December 4 Desert Sage Herbs 1728 North Alma School Road, Chandler Did you know chocolate is actually good for you? Learn how to make homemade chocolate for you and your family in this class presented by aromatic specialist Vicki Greener at Desert Sage Herbs. The cost of the class is $50 and includes supplies, lots of samples, and handouts. All recipes are dairy, gluten, and egg-free. RELATED STORIES A Modern Guide to Afternoon Tea at Wrigley Mansion Save Room For Dessert at These Phoenix Restaurants These Five Underrated Greater Phoenix Eateries Are Hidden Gems I SUPPORT Phoenix New Times Phoenix New Times LOCAL COMMUNITY JOURNALISM SUPPORT THE INDEPENDENT VOICE OF PHOENIX AND HELP KEEP THE FUTURE OF NEW TIMES FREE. SUPPORT US Jingle Bell Rockin’ Holiday Block Party Sunday, December 5 Tarbell's 3213 East Camelback Road Tarbell's Hospitality, led by chef Mark Tarbell, is hosting a holiday block party and wine sale in the Tarbell's parking lot from 1 to 4 p.m. There will be yard games, premium wine tastes, contests, live music from Tarbell's band Cha Cha Mouche, and more. The Wine Store will be open and selling a variety of select wines including those being used for the tasting. General admission costs $49 and includes a wine tasting with 10 pours and food pairings. A portion of the wine proceeds will be donated to the Joy Bus Diner. Learn all about whiskey (and taste a few) at Second Story Liquor Bar and Restaurant. - LAUREN SARIA Learn all about whiskey (and taste a few) at Second Story Liquor Bar and Restaurant. Lauren Saria Wonderland Whiskey Tasting Tuesdays, December 7 and 14 Second Story Liquor Bar and Restaurant 4166 North Scottsdale Road, Scottsdale Whiskey lovers are invited to select from two seasonal tasting events with a brand ambassador at Second Story Liquor Bar and Restaurant. Get four tastes on December 7 and five on December 14. These include a welcome barrel-aged cocktail, Makers Mark Barrel Select, and more. It's $75 to $125 per person depending on which event, plus tax and gratuity. Match Guide to Wine Class and Tasting Wednesday, December 8 Match Market and Bar at Found:RE Phoenix 1100 North Central Avenue This monthly class at Match Market and Bar offers a discussion about a certain type of wine with tasting samples and light bites. December's focus is on chardonnay and pinot noir with guest speaker John Martindale of Stem Wine Company. Tickets are $25, and the event is from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Spirited Sipping Seminar Saturday, December 11 Hearth '61 at Mountain Shadows 5445 East Lincoln Drive, Scottsdale Learn all about drinks with bubbles during this class at Hearth '61 at Mountain Shadows. You'll get both a history lesson and a taste test at the same time during this 30- to 45-minute class. Space is limited to 20 guests, with a maximum party size of eight people, and it's $39 to attend. The cocktail paired with New York strip steak is made with Sacred Stave. - SANTAN BREWERY, DISTILLERY + EATERY The cocktail paired with New York strip steak is made with Sacred Stave. SanTan Brewery, Distillery + Eatery Grain to Farm to Table Wednesday, December 15 SanTan Gardens 495 East Warner Road, Chandler This event is a partnership between SanTan Brewing Company and Moon River Beef at the SanTan Gardens.Taste cuts of beef fed from SanTan beer-spent grains, each paired with a SanTan beer or cocktail. On the menu is a ground beef slider paired with Devil's Ale; coffee-rubbed brisket with an espresso old fashioned; an adobo short rib paired with Sex Panther; and New York strip steak paired with Sacred Stave RyeBall. Tickets are $55 a person. Champagne Dinner Thursday, December 16 ZuZu at Hotel Valley Ho 6850 East Main Street, Scottsdale Get a jump start on 2022 with Zuzu at Hotel Valley Ho's annual champagne dinner. Food includes starters like Wagyu beef empanadas and steak tartar with caviar followed by Nantucket Bay scallops; Argentine New York strip steak "Oscar"; and strawberry cheesecake, all paired with Veuve Clicquot champagnes.The dinner is $149 per person plus gratuity and tax. 2022 New Years Eve Great Gatsby Ball Friday, December 31 Queen Creek Botanical Gardens 25002 South 206th Street, Queen Creek Roar into the 1920s with this Great Gatsby-themed New Years Eve party at Queen Creek Botanical Garden right by Pecan Lake. Dinner will be included plus there will be live music, fireworks, a tournament, a prize for the best dressed couple, and a champagne toast. Tickets are $150 per person. KEEP PHOENIX NEW TIMES FREE... Since we started Phoenix New Times, it has been defined as the free, independent voice of Phoenix, and we'd like to keep it that way. With local media under siege, it's more important than ever for us to rally support behind funding our local journalism. You can help by participating in our "I Support" program, allowing us to keep offering readers access to our incisive coverage of local news, food and culture with no paywalls. Make a one-time donation today for as little as $1. JULIE LEVIN is a writer, TV show producer, and an on-air news radio anchor. When she's not behind the scenes or mid broadcast, she's trying new eateries and bars or meeting up with as many friends as possible in one day (usually socializing around food). A self-proclaimed history geek, she also enjoys reading menus and watching food shows with her boyfriend. They're working to visit every place on their master list of Arizona restaurants. FOLLOW: Twitter: @jflevin TRENDING RESTAURANTS Now Open: Angie's Lobster Brings Affordable Lobster Meals to Tempe Here Are All the Phoenix Restaurants That Opened and Closed in November Now Open: Fuel to Fit Meal Prep Café Debuts in Tempe DON'T MISS OUT SIGN UP for the latest food & drink news, free stuff and more! JOIN TODAY LATEST STORIES Angie's Lobster Offers Meals Under $10 The lobster roll meal is $9.99 at Angie's Lobster. The Phoenix Restaurants That Opened and Closed in November The largest location of Chompie's opened in Phoenix. St. Vincent de Paul's Queen Bee Helps the Homeless BaeHive students in their gear. More » HOLIDAYS Six Valley Venues for Holiday Celebrations RUDRI PATEL DECEMBER 2, 2021 6:03AM Full-size banquet rooms and smaller spaces can accommodate large and intimate party celebrations at Thirsty Lion Gastropub. Full-size banquet rooms and smaller spaces can accommodate large and intimate party celebrations at Thirsty Lion Gastropub. Thirsty Lion Gastropub December is here, and the holiday party season is about to go into full swing. If you want to skip hosting at home, don't worry. There are plenty of venues around town that will take care of the space and all the details so you can making hosting a holiday party look easy. Check out these six Valley venues for your holiday celebration. STK Scottsdale 7134 East Stetson Drive, Scottsdale Looking for a venue that offers a modern feel and views of the Arizona Canal? STK Scottsdale will help you host your intimate party or large gathering during the holidays. The venue has a modern feel with chic lighting and picturesque views of the canal. There are five event and private dining spaces. The waterfront patio allows up to 50 seated guests, while the side patio accommodates up to 25 guests. If you'd like to accommodate 280 seated guests or 500 standing, you can contact STK for a full venue buyout. Call 480- 581-5171 for further information. Pedal Haus Brewery Multiple Locations Pedal Haus Brewery has options for intimate and large gatherings during the holiday. If you want a chill celebration at Pedal Haus, guests can sip on beers and partake in the bar menu with favorites like burgers and pizza. The Tempe location can host 20 to 500 people, while the Chandler location can accommodate up to 300 people. Contact events@pedalhausebrewery.com. There are plenty of venues, like STK Scottsdale, that are willing and able to host your holiday party. - STK SCOTTSDALE There are plenty of venues, like STK Scottsdale, that are willing and able to host your holiday party. STK Scottsdale Thirsty Lion Gastropub Multiple Locations Celebrate the holidays at Thirsty Lion Gastropub, a mixture of an American and European bar experience. All locations will offer beer and cocktails, as well as items like chicken sliders, cheeseburgers, salmon, and mac and cheese. There are multiple spaces that are semi-private, as well as full-sized banquet rooms for your holiday party celebrations. For holiday party details, call (480) 648-9931. KEEP NEW TIMES FREE. SUPPORT US Grimaldi’s Pizzeria Multiple Locations Pizza is always a big hit with crowds. With seven metro locations, Grimaldi's Pizzeria can be an absolute go-to for casual small or larger holiday celebrations. Celebrate the season with a coal-fired, brick-oven pizza or two in a relaxed setting. Book an event via email by contacting events@grimaldipizzeria.com. The outdoor space can accommodate small and medium-sized groups at Z'Tejas. - Z'TEJAS The outdoor space can accommodate small and medium-sized groups at Z'Tejas. Z'Tejas Z'Tejas Multiple Locations If you'd like to host a private gathering, Z’Tejas has the space at the Scottsdale and Chandler locations. Small plates include yuca fries and quesadillas and choose entrees like salmon, trout, and shrimp enchiladas. At the Chandler location, the room can accommodate up to 50 people, while the Scottsdale venue can seat up to 35 people. If you want something exclusive, the chef's dining room at the Scottsdale location can seat up to 12 people. The Lodge 26 South Farmer Avenue, Tempe At The Lodge, partygoers can get their game face on. There are options like corn hole, Jenga, darts, and a pool table so guests can play a few rounds and also enjoy their drinks and food. The space accommodates up to 300 people, but if you have a smaller party, the patio can house 150 people, while the game room fits up to 60 people. Call 480-967-0578 for additional information. The Lodge is our Best of Phoenix 2021 winner for Best Bar Food.