Boost Your Lifestyle At Premier Expo MIDWEEK STAFF on November 24, 2021 GERALD SHINTAKU, director of events with Star Events, a division of O‘ahu Publications Inc. The second annual Young At Heart Expo will be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Dec. 3-4 at a new venue, Hawai‘i Convention Center (located at 1801 Kalākaua Ave.). This event highlights the very best from Hawai‘i and beyond. Businesses will have the opportunity to promote the latest in health, financial and lifestyle products, and services. This free, fun event promises to bring an educational, entertaining weekend to promote the health and well-being of our community with emphasis on the positive aspects of aging. It is an all-inclusive resource, bringing together many available services that are dedicated to serving our kūpuna. Young At Heart Expo is open to the general public with ample parking available at the convention center. Working with the center’s management to ensure this event complies with the latest COVID-19 requirements, all attendees must be vaccinated and arrive with proof of vaccination and a photo ID. Guest temperatures will be checked prior to entry, and don’t forget to wear a mask. Participants gather at a previous Young At Heart Expo. HONOLULU STAR-ADVERTISER FILE PHOTO For contact tracing purposes, we are encouraging everyone to register prior to the show at youngathearthawaii.com. MDX Hawai‘i/United Healthcare, Humana, Well-care by ‘Ohana Health Plan, HMSA, Kaiser Permanente, Engel & Völkers Honolulu and Honolulu Star-Advertiser are key sponsors of the show. Humana is planning to hold a special Vietnam veterans pinning event at the expo during the breakout sessions on Dec. 3. Additionally, Vietnam War veterans are invited to attend the ceremony to receive their lapel pins, which are a lasting memento of the nation’s thanks. Living U.S. veterans who served on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces at any time during the period of Nov. 1, 1955, to May 15, 1975, regardless of location, are eligible to receive a lapel pin.