Talk story with Disney actor Matt Sato The 20-year-old O‘ahu native shares why returning to the islands to film Disney's "Doogie Kameāloha, M.D." meant so much to him. Victoria Miranda, Features Writer Dec 2, 2021 Updated Dec 2, 2021 Comments Facebook Twitter Email Matt Sato collage.png Facebook Twitter Email Print Save People often associate the feeling of “home” with loved ones and cherished places. Home to Matt Sato, the 20-year-old actor from Mililani, is right here on Oʻahu. Sato returned to his home this spring to begin filming the first season of “Doogie Kameāloha, M.D.” It was a long awaited dream of Sato’s to launch an acting career. “When I was 13, I did my first job. I auditioned for my first role, and it was for Hawaii Five-0,” Sato said. He instantly fell in love with the job. “It was just a day. A one day job. And it was at that moment that I knew I wanted to be an actor, because it was so cool getting to see all the pieces put together and getting to work with all the different people.”  Matt_Sato_-_2021_-__Photo_1.jpeg.jpg Headshot of Matt Sato Courtesy of Nancy Bernal Not only did Hawaiʻi’s film industry provide Sato with the opportunity to start his career with an appearance in Hawaii Five-0, but also gave him an advantage over those on the mainland. “There’s so many productions out here,” Sato said. “L.A. has a lot of competition. I mean, there’s thousands of people that come from all over the world just for acting.” “You’re in a much bigger pond, but at the same time that’s where I have to be in order to get a lot of work,” Sato said. While Sato finds many opportunities in L.A., he greatly enjoys being back on Oʻahu for work. “This is home, and home is where the heart is.”  Sato is one of a handful of actors that is able to represent Hawaiʻi in his work, making it extremely valuable to him and the community he is a part of. Being one of the up-and-coming actors from Hawai’ʻ also gives Sato some recognition. “I’ve been able to represent a lot of families here in Hawaiʻi,” Sato said. IMG_7793.jpg Sato on the beach in O‘ahu. @mattsato on Instagram Sato’s manager, Nancy Bernal, also finds opportunity in Sato’s recent work due to his Hawaiian background. “It is such an advantage that [Sato] is from Hawaiʻi because the show is based about a family that lives in Hawaiʻi,” Bernal said. Sato also worked alongside Jason Scott Lee, another Hawaiian actor who starred in movies including the live-action remake of “The Jungle Book” and “Mulan.” Bernal added when discussing “Doogie Kameāloha, M.D.,” “[Sato] has got other people in the cast that are from Hawaiʻi. It just makes it so much more authentic.” Despite having been able to film on Oʻahu for “Doogie Kameāloha, M.D.,” Sato tries to connect with his Hawaiian roots wherever he is working. “I try to carry the ‘aloha spirit’ with me wherever I go, even when I’m working on the mainland,” Sato said.  Part of Sato’s mission to stay connected with his love for the islands also connects him with his love for animals and connection to community. In the past few months, Sato has started working with the Hawaiian Humane Society and the Ronald McDonald House Charities of Hawaiʻi.  “With The Hawaiʻi Humane Society, their main goal is to get pets adopted. Matt loves animals, it's a passion, and  he appeals to dogs and anything he can do to help get pets adopted,” Bernal said. “As far as Ronald McDonald House, he started helping them with their fundraising efforts because they have a few auctions coming up. He’s helping promote the auction, bringing awareness to it, and trying to tell people the mission of Ronald McDonald. He just loves giving back to the community.” With his film and charity work, it is difficult for Sato to find free time. Whenever given a break from work, Sato tries to squeeze in time to visit Oʻahu.  IMG_7789.jpg Shot from an episode of Doogie Kameāloha, M.D. on Disney+. @mattsato on Instagram “I try to spend as much time here at home as I can. I like to come back to see my family. I come back to see my dogs and it’s also nice because whenever I’m here I get to go hiking, fishing, just doing all of my favorite things,” Sato said. Like any other Oʻahu local, Sato has some favorite places that he doesn’t want to give up. Some beaches, restaurants and hikes remain local secrets so as to not overcrowd them with tourists. “I can’t say all of my favorite spots. I’ll just say watching the sunset on the west side. And I like spending the day on Waimānalo beach,” Sato said.  Overall, the lifestyles of Oʻahu is something Sato has a great appreciation for. “It’s a lot more laid back here, and of course, we have a bit of spirit here,” Sato says. “In L.A., it can get very rushed and a lot of people are always in a hurry.” Sato’s love for Oʻahu doesn’t stop him from dreaming of other places his work can take him. “It’d be really cool to work outside of the country,” Sato says. “I really want to see the northern lights so any project that could take me to go see the northern lights I would love to be a part of.”  Sato currently finds himself back in L.A. to continue working on other projects. Currently, episodes of “Doogie Kameāloha, M.D.”can be found on Disney+ with the final episode of the season having aired on November 10. Sato will also have a recurring role in the second season of the “Saved by the Bell” reboot, which began streaming on Peacock Nov. 24. Further updates on Sato can be found on his Instagram page @mattsato.