Excessive rain, high winds and surf continue today for Maui County LOCAL NEWS DEC 6, 2021   The Maui News Excessive rain, high winds and high surf were expected to continue into today in Maui County from a “Kona Low” storm that resulted in power outages, flashing traffic lights and downed trees in areas of Maui on Sunday night. Shortly before 6 p.m. Sunday, power was out at the Kahului Airport terminal and the runway was out of operation because of the outage, according to the state Department of Transportation. Travelers were told to check with airlines before going to the airport. The effects of the storm also were seen in flashing traffic lights in areas including Piilani Highway at Uwapo Road in Kihei, and Kula and Haleakala highways, according to the Department of Transportation. Public schools in Maui County were closed today because of expected rainfall and flooding. Haleakala National Park was closed at the summit and Kipahulu district at 5:30 p.m. Sunday due to high winds and winter weather. Reservations scheduled for today for sunrise and Hosmer Grove camping were canceled, along with wilderness tent camping permits and wilderness cabin permits. The National Weather Service issued a flood watch through Tuesday, as well as a high surf warning for north and west facing shores that was expected to result in minor coastal flooding through mid-morning today. Baldwin Beach Park in Paia was closed Sunday due to flooding. “As this unstable system continues to deliver large amounts of rain to Maui County, please prepare your household before flooding begins,” Mayor Michael Victorino said in a news release. “If you are in a flood-prone area, take all necessary precautions to ensure the safety of you and your family.” The Weather Service said the storm was expected to especially affect west facing shores. Because of significant expected rainfall, the county Department of Environmental Management was advising residents connected to the county wastewater system to minimize toilet flushing, bathing and using washers and dishwashers through Wednesday morning. The Maui Emergency Management Agency was working with social service agencies to notify homeless people about the potential threat of flash flooding, especially in flood-prone areas, the news release said. In conjunction with the American Red Cross, the agency was prepared to open shelters if evacuations become necessary. The agency also was communicating with dam and reservoir owners to alert them to monitor water levels and take needed safey precautions, according to the county. At 4:27 p.m. Sunday, radar showed rainfall increasing over the slopes of Haleakala at the rate of 2 to 3 inches per hour, approaching Maui from the south. In the 24 hours ending at 5 p.m. Sunday, the most rainfall in the county was measured on Lanai with 2.47 inches, followed by Kula with 2.26 inches and Molokai with 2.21 inches. On Maui, Puu Kukui recorded 1.44 inches and Hana Airport recorded 1.28 inches during the same period. The lowest rainfall total for the period was 0.34 inch at Kahului Airport. The county reported that a portion of Piilani Highway near Pahihi Gulch was washed out Saturday night, making the road impassable. County Public Works crews were on scene to assess the damage and repairs were expected to begin this week. The Maui Sunday Market was canceled. High surf led to cancellation of the swim portion Sunday of the Xterra World Championships at D.T. Fleming Beach.