 Las Vegas News SUBSCRIBE SIGN IN 67°Fweather icon NEWS LOCAL SPORTS BUSINESS OPINION CRIME ENTERTAINMENT INVESTIGATIONS VIDEOS OBITS   67°F weather iconMostly Cloudy Las Vegas NV search... HOME 7@7 VIDEO CORONAVIRUS CORONAVIRUS Section NV COVID Data Vaccine Information Those We Lost Testing Locations Reopening Las Vegas One Year Later Masks in NV Symptoms/Prevention Resources Who’s Hiring? Share Your Story THINGS TO DO NEWS NEWS Section Education Class of 2021 Politics and Government 2021 Legislature Nevada Clark County Las Vegas The Nevada Poll Judging the Judges 2019 Election 2020 The Middle Nation and World Science and Technology News Columns Road Warrior On Education Military LOCAL LOCAL Section Traffic Las Vegas Weather East Valley Henderson Las Vegas Downtown Nevada North Las Vegas Southwest Summerlin/Centennial Hills The Strip Local Columns Bob Morris Deborah Wall Herb Jaffe Natalie Burt Remembering Oct. 1, 2017 Remembering 9/11: 20 Years Later INVESTIGATIONS INVESTIGATIONS Section Police Accountability Alpine Fire NV COVID Data Boogaloo Movement Painful Mistakes State of Disrepair SPORTS SPORTS Section Raiders Golden Knights UNLV UNLV Basketball UNLV Football Nevada Preps Betting Sports Betting 101 Las Vegas Sportsbooks Sports Columns Ed Graney Ron Kantowski Todd Dewey Mike Brunker In The Outdoors Poker Silver Knights Aces Aviators Las Vegas Bowl NFL Draft National Finals Rodeo Olympics Where Are They Now? On TV/Radio Lights FC MMA and UFC Football Basketball Boxing Baseball Esports Golf Motor Sports BUSINESS BUSINESS Section Red Hot Housing Red Hot Housing Casinos & Gaming Conventions Energy Housing Tourism Business Columns Inside Gaming Real Estate Insider Entrepreneurs Real Estate News Business Press Sheldon Adelson (1933-2021) OPINION OPINION Section Editorials Letters Opinion Columns Michael Ramirez cartoons Victor Joecks Steve Sebelius Richard A. Epstein Victor Davis Hanson Drawing Board CRIME CRIME Section Faces of Death Row Courts Homicides Robberies Sex Crimes Shootings Stabbings ENTERTAINMENT ENTERTAINMENT Section Things To Do Arts & Culture Celebrity Food Movies Nightlife Shows Music TV TV Guide Entertainment Columns Christopher Lawrence Heidi Knapp Rinella Trip of the Week Kats Sounding Off Events Gift Guides Life Is Beautiful LIFE LIFE Section Comics Puzzles Fashion Health Emotional Wellness Home and Garden Recreation Las Vegas Hiking Guide Religion Travel Gift Guide RJ MAGAZINE EVERYONE DESERVES HOPE VIDEOS PODCASTS RJ AWARDS ALLEGIANT STADIUM LIVECAM OBITUARIES OBITUARIES Section Today’s Obituaries Submit an obit AUTOS AUTOS Section Auto News Dealer News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad HOMES HOMES Section Provided Content New Homes Real Estate Millions Real Estate News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad JOBS CLASSIFIEDS CLASSIFIEDS Section Service Directory Transportation Merchandise Legal Information Real Estate Classifieds Garage Sales Pets Rentals FAQ Place a Classified Ad Coupons Contests and Promotions BEST OF LAS VEGAS HEADLINES CONTESTS TV GUIDE SPONSORED CONTENT SPONSORED CONTENT Section Advertorial Articles Business Nevada State Bank Education Entertainment Food La Bonita Health P3 Health Partners Local Progress Real Estate Ignite Funding Travel Travel Nevada SUBSCRIPTIONS NEWSLETTERS CONTACT US ADVERTISE WITH US Watch 7&7 Covid | Vaccide Data Home >> Entertainment >> Music DJ Justin Blau made millions with NFTs. His next move could disrupt the music business. Justin Blau sold over $11 million worth of NFTs in February, setting the mark at the time for o ...Justin Blau sold over $11 million worth of NFTs in February, setting the mark at the time for overall sales for a single NFT drop/collection.Justin Blau studied finance at Washington University in St. Louis before pursuing a career as a ...Justin Blau studied finance at Washington University in St. Louis before pursuing a career as a DJ-producer.DJ 3Lau performs at the Kinetic Field stage during the final day of the Electric Daisy Carnival ...DJ 3Lau performs at the Kinetic Field stage during the final day of the Electric Daisy Carnival at the Las Vegas Motor Speedway on Sunday, Oct. 24, 2021. (Chase Stevens/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @csstevensphoto More Stories David Lee Roth extends Vegas ‘world goodbye tour’ Michael Bublé headlines limited Las Vegas engagement John Legend announces Las Vegas residency Dave Grohl forecasts Foo Fighters’ Las Vegas residency By Jason Bracelin Las Vegas Review-Journal December 3, 2021 - 3:25 pm      Don't miss the big stories. Like us on Facebook.  Updated December 6, 2021 - 2:37 pm A beloved hip-hop troupe. A hated pharma bro. The most expensive piece of music ever sold. That’s where this story begins, really. Flash back to 2015: Rap supergroup the Wu-Tang Clan limits the release of its seventh album, “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin,” to a single copy and auctions it off to the highest bidder. Currently imprisoned, former Turing Pharmaceuticals CEO Martin Shkreli, a Gordon Gecko-meets-Scrooge McDuck comic book villain incarnate with a lust for price-gouging meds, buys it for a reported $2 million. Thing was, the album could not be commercially exploited in any way until 2103, only played at listening parties or for friends and associates, as a stipulation of its sale. Cue Justin Blau’s raised eyebrows. The Vegas-based DJ-producer, a technophile with a background in finance who performs under the name 3lau, has long sought to disrupt the ways that the music business does business. WANT TOP PICKS FOR LIVING IT UP IN LAS VEGAS? Sign up for The Ticket entertainment newsletter EMAIL  SIGN UP   By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. Unsubscribe at any time. “What Wu-Tang did with that album was a huge inspiration for me,” the 30-year-old Blau says on a Zoom call on Wednesday from Miami, where he’s attending the Art Basel art fair. He’s there to sell a one-of-a-kind musical creation of his own, the song “Waveform,” which will be offered as an NFT (nonfungible token) as part of the first NFT auction from renowned auction house Christie’s, done in collaboration with peer-to-peer cryptogoods marketplace OpenSea. Bidding began Saturday and closes Tuesday. As with “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin,” its buyer will own the only copy of the tune in existence. Unlike that album, though, the sale comes with no strings attached. “Back then, they gave one person the right to listen, but they didn’t give that person ownership,” Blau says of “Shaolin.” “That person owned the physical CD and the album cover, but they didn’t have the right to distribute it; they couldn’t put it up on Spotify. Those were the rules. So, we said to ourselves, ‘What if there were no rules?’ ” Blau has been at the forefront of introducing NFTs and crypto technology to the music industry. Three years ago, he launched OMF (Our Music Festival), the first blockchain-powered music fest. In February — in a year in which NFTs have exploded into the public consciousness, with sales of more than $17 billion, according to crypto news company Cointelegraph — Blau again positioned himself as an industry leader, selling $11.6 million in NFTs, setting the mark at the time for overall sales for a single NFT drop/collection, as well as the highest price paid ($3.6 million) for a single NFT. (In case you’re in need of a quick primer, NFTs are digital certificates of ownership for digital assets like songs, artwork, highlight clips of NBA games, tweets, podcasts — just about anything can be tokenized — that can be bought and sold on online marketplaces like OpenSea or NBA Top Shot, which use blockchain technology to verify the authenticity of an NFT.) In May, Blau sought to build on all this momentum by launching a new company, Royal, a blockchain-based platform that allows fans to directly invest in an artist’s music via NFTs like “Waveform.” “Where music has been as it sits in the NFT landscape today is that it’s purely collectible,” Blau says. “You can buy an NFT of a song to show patronage to your favorite artist, but it doesn’t give you any ownership of the song. The principle behind Royal is, what if fans can own music, too? What if your fans could be your record label?” ‘Imagine if your record collection paid you a check every month’ Scarcity is scarce in the music industry. Nowadays, you subscribe to Spotify to gain unlimited access to nearly every song in the world or you pay 99 cents for one of a million copies of a hit tune. Outside of limited pressings of a vinyl record, which caters to an equally limited audience, music has always been widely prevalent, cheap to own and readily available for free on the commercial airwaves. Yet scarcity is what gives many works of art their value — from an original Picasso painting to a Faberge egg to — in less exotic terms — one of a limited number of front row seats to a Rolling Stones concert. Blau cites a cartoon collectible as an example. “You look at a Charizard Pokemon card; the physical value in the card is the cardboard and the print, which only costs a dollar and 50 cents. The Charizard card is worth $350,000. Why? Well, it’s all virtual value, because I can go print another Charizard Pokemon card from the highest quality printer, but it’s not going to be an official one. So, what we do is we try to capture this excess emotional value in music by creating scarcity in a world that has never had that component. “If you can own an exclusive edition that assigns you ownership in a song, what does that mean for you emotionally?” he asks. “When you’re at a music festival and you can tell your friend next to you, ‘I own this song that’s being played,’ it’s a similar reaction to how we flex physical goods in real life.” Now, fans investing directly in an artist is not a new phenomenon. Plenty of acts, for instance, have launched GoFundMe campaigns in which contributors have financed the recording of a new album, and in return they may receive credit in the liner notes, a signed drumhead, tickets to a show in their town or something of that nature. But ownership of the record — and any profits made from its sale or commercial use — remains solely in the hands of its creators. With Royal, Blau is attempting to create a platform where that kind of investment in an artist can potentially pay monetary dividends. How it works: An artist determines the number of editions he or she wants to mint of a song to be auctioned on the site, each one denoted by a unique piece of artwork sold as an NFT entitling its owner to a specific portion of any royalties generated by the song. “As the artist makes money on the song,” Blau explains, “they pay it into a smart contract that each of those token holders can claim from as the income comes in. “The way that I describe it,” he elaborates, “is, like, imagine if your record collection paid you a check every month because you owned a piece of all the songs that were in your record collection.” Prior to “Waveform,” Blau gave Royal a test run, giving away 50 percent of the streaming revenue to his previous single, “Worst Case ft. CXLOE,” to 333 fans via NFTs. Those fans then began trading the NFTs on OpenSea. “We’ve done about a million in trading volume in a month,” Blau says. “The total valuation based on price is $12 million today for a song — for one song. That is just so far beyond the cash flows that exist from streaming. That proves that there’s so much more emotional value in ownership than the world is pricing it at.” That said, he acknowledges that such lucrative success with NFTs would be hard for most artists to duplicate — just as it’s hard for an artist to earn a gold record. “Everyone’s like, ‘You did this first; maybe you’re an exception to the rule,’ ” Blau says. “Maybe that’s true, but even if an artist does a thousandth of that, it’s still better than the other deals they have on the table available to them.” Making bank on the next big thing? It’s a music geek’s equivalent of soldier’s stripes, to be able to say that you discovered a band before most everyone else, to have seen The Killers in front of 20 people at a dive bar on a Saturday night, long before they became famous. What do you get from the experience? Bragging rights, mainly. But what if you could monetize those bragging rights? What if you could invest in an up-and-coming artist and have your portfolio grow with their careers? Those are the two big questions Blau is attempting to answer with Royal, which he started with his best friend from college, Opendoor co-founder JD Ross, and which counts among its investors Darkroom records head Justin Lubliner, best known for discovering Billie Eilish. “Fans can only participate today,” Blau says of a listener’s relationship with an artist. “They can buy tickets, they can buy merch, they can listen to the music, but there’s no way for them to experience upside in an artist’s success if they’re there early on. “Those fans at the beginning provide an immense value,” he continues, “because they share the music with their friends, they listen on repeat, which helps the Spotify algorithm, they’ve added all this value to the artist. But then the artist explodes, their tickets get more expensive and it’s more difficult to access the artist from a social standpoint. What Royal is doing is it’s creating a mechanism to align fan incentives with artists.” He also sees Royal as a means of connecting those artists with their industry peers. For example, a vocalist could cut 10 vocal tracks, keep two for herself, and sell the rest on Royal to a producer who wants them for songs he’s working on. “This happens to artists all the time,” Blau says. “I’m sitting on a hundred incomplete songs that I might never get to, but someone else might want to work on them or own them. This is a new way for artists to monetize.” As with anything new, all this can take a minute to get your head around — especially when the context is the still-nascent intersection between digital art, commerce and investment. Blau knows this, and that’s what this year has been all about for him: producing tangible results from a nontangible realm. “The idea of owning something digitally has never made sense, because we’ve always lived in this right-click-save mentality, where everything digital is copy-able,” he says. “Creating authenticity on blockchain for ownership changes that mentality completely — it spins on its head. “This mentality has existed in the gaming world forever,” he continues, “but it really hasn’t existed in digital media. Now that people are starting to see it, it’s just explosive. It’s really, truly explosive.” Contact Jason Bracelin at jbracelin@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0476. Follow @jbracelin76 on Instagram. CLOSE SHARE MOST READ 1 Star bull rider’s condition updated after nasty fall at NFR Star bull rider’s condition updated after nasty fall at NFR 2 2021 NFR Las Vegas 4th go-round results 2021 NFR Las Vegas 4th go-round results 3 2021 NFR Las Vegas 3rd go-round results 2021 NFR Las Vegas 3rd go-round results 4 New road to provide traffic relief to booming west Henderson New road to provide traffic relief to booming west Henderson 5 Bull riding star injured during frightening NFR spill Bull riding star injured during frightening NFR spill THE LATEST David Lee Roth performs at House of Blues at Mandalay Bay on Friday, Jan. 10, 2020. (John Katsi ... David Lee Roth extends Vegas ‘world goodbye tour’ By John Katsilometes / RJ December 6, 2021 - 8:12 am David Lee Roth has added two weekends to his House of Blues retirement residency Michael Buble is show with Larry and Camille Ruvo at 22nd Keep Memory Alive Power of Love gala ... Michael Bublé headlines limited Las Vegas engagement By John Katsilometes / RJ December 6, 2021 - 11:07 am Michael Bublé is playing the Strip’s newest theater in its newest resort, and he’s bringing a mega-band. Performer John Legend plays the piano during a drive-in get out the vote rally featuring Democr ... John Legend announces Las Vegas residency By Lukas Eggen / RJ December 6, 2021 - 9:25 am Zappos Theater at Planet Hollywood is welcoming a legend next spring. Dave Grohl and the Foo Fighters perform during the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction cerem ... Dave Grohl forecasts Foo Fighters’ Las Vegas residency By John Katsilometes / RJ December 5, 2021 - 5:35 pm Rev. Run performed at halftime at Allegiant Stadium on Sunday. A night earlier, Dave Grohl of the Foo Fighters talked of a Vegas residency. Derek Stevens, right, is shown next to the fabled Manneken Pis statue at the D Las Vegas on Thu ... The D’s Manneken Pis repaired after wee problem By John Katsilometes / RJ December 4, 2021 - 4:47 pm Manneken Pis’ new chaps are in honor of the National Finals Rodeo. We say, keep ‘em year-round. Singer Celine Dion arrives for the Vauthier Spring/Summer 2019 Haute Couture fashion collection ... Celine Dion return might not happen until fall 2022 By John Katsilometes / RJ December 3, 2021 - 7:26 pm Celine Dion has no schedule updates as the Theater at Resorts World Las Vegas has formally opened.   Run-DMC co-founder to play Raiders halftime show By John Katsilometes / RJ December 5, 2021 - 9:06 am Joseph Simmons , groundbreaking rapper and co-founder of Run- DMC, is performing at halftime of Sunday’s game between the Raiders and the Washington Football Team.   Carrie Underwood causes a splash in Strip residency at Resorts World By John Katsilometes / RJ December 6, 2021 - 8:07 am Carrie Underwood performed to a robust, rowdy show of 5,000 fans to open the Theater at Resorts World. NFR brings country icon George Strait back to T-Mobile Arena, perhaps the most intimate venue i ... Top 10 things to do in Las Vegas this week December 2, 2021 - 9:06 am Country music, comedy shows, and family outings to see “The Velveteen Rabbit” highlight this week’s list of things to do in Las Vegas.   Journey had early belief in ‘Don’t Stop Believin’ By John Katsilometes / RJ December 2, 2021 - 9:32 am Neal Schon listened back to “Don’t Stop Believin’” just as the song was about to be released. He felt something special. Las Vegas Review-Journal INFO & EDITIONS Traffic Las Vegas Weather e-Edition Download our Apps Contests and Promotions Sponsored Content SOLUTIONS Advertise with Us Place a Classified Ad FAQ At The Scene Store Rights and Permissions SUBSCRIPTIONS Subscriptions Put The Paper On Hold Report A Delivery Issue Newsletter Sign Up CONNECTIONS Contact Us Letter to Editor News Tips and Press Releases Work for Las Vegas Review-Journal Inc. Internships AFFILIATE PUBLICATIONS Best of Las Vegas Business Press El Tiempo Pahrump Valley Times Boulder City Review LV New Homes Guide Nevada Preps Vegas Nation rj magazine RELATED ARTICLES: Raiders NewsNevada Primary Election ResultsLas Vegas SportsLas Vegas Entertainment Copyright © 2021 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP fb x By continuing to browse or by clicking “I Accept Cookies” you agree to the storing of first-party and third-party cookies on your device and consent to the disclosure of your personal information to our third party service providers or advertising partners to optimize your experience, analyze traffic and personalize content. I Accept Cookies 