
By Mac Banks
Saturday, December 4, 2021 at 2:00 am (Updated: December 4, 2:00 am)
PopularRelated
Our View – The Lancaster News will be moving, but not going away
Education Notes 12-4-21
News Briefs – Dec. 4, 2021
Hall column – Suspending gas tax would derail roadwork across state
Stuart column - Meals on Wheels more than just food
Confirmed COVID-19 cases spike again
Terry column – How to be a good American
McGarry won’t seek second House term
more
After two short years in office, state District 44 Rep. Sandy McGarry won’t be running for her S.C. House seat again.

She is being forced out by redistricting.

The S.C. House is in the process of creating new district maps of the state after the 2020 Census. Redistricting occurs every 10 years to try and give equal representation to people across the state. Each district will represent roughly 40,000 people.

The new redistricting map passed second reading this past week in the S.C. House. Third reading is scheduled for Monday and it is expected to pass. From there it will go to the S.C. Senate for approval and then be signed by Gov. Henry McMaster.

McGarry, who lives in the Buford area, has been representing part of Lancaster County in District 44 since she was elected in November 2020. However, because of the way the new map has been drawn, McGarry will now live in Richie Yow’s District 53, forcing her to either run against Yow in the primary or not run at all.

District 44 is being moved to the Indian Land area of the county, so someone from that area will be elected to the S.C. House.

“I don’t have a seat for District 44,” McGarry said.

In the past, McGarry has been adamant that she wouldn’t run against fellow Republican Yow, due to their close friendship.

“The numbers put me in Richie Yow’s district,” McGarry said. “I don’t blame them. It is what it is. I feel horrible for the constituents. I love representing this area. It is a great district. To me, it is written perfectly the way it is. To have it split up into three house seats now is not anything I would want to see done to it.”

McGarry voted against the second reading of the maps, which passed in the state house by a 96-14 vote Wednesday, Dec. 1.

“It was very emotional,” she said. “It was very hard. It wasn’t hard to push a no button, but it was a hard day.”

McGarry said she has no plan at this time to run again for office, either at the state or local level, but plans on continuing to work with the GOP in helping to get other Republicans elected and re-elected.

McGarry said she also plans to volunteer with at-risk youth as part of the S.C. Youth Challenge Academy.

“This is for children who are dropping out of high school or getting into drugs,” she said. “This youth challenge program is a boot camp program through the state. It is a phenomenal program.”

Follow reporter Mac Banks on Twitter @MacBanksFM or contact him at 803-283-1155.
