Skip to main content
×

Please log in to keep reading.
Enjoy unlimited articles at one of our lowest prices ever. Unlimited digital, 50% OFF for 3 mos.


site-logo
AP TOP STORY
Oklahoma hires Clemson's Brent Venables to replace Riley
By CLIFF BRUNT AP Sports Writer 19 hrs ago  0
1 of 5





Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
By CLIFF BRUNT AP Sports Writer
Oklahoma hired Clemson defensive coordinator Brent Venables as its head coach to replace Lincoln Riley on Sunday night, bringing back a former Sooners assistant with a long track record of success.

Venables will be introduced Monday morning on the campus in Norman, the school said.

The 50-year-old Venables was on Oklahoma's staff under Bob Stoops as co-defensive coordinator from 1999 to 2003 and defensive coordinator from 2004 to 2011. He was co-defensive coordinator when the Sooners won the 2000 national title. He left Oklahoma for Clemson in 2012 and won the Broyles Award in 2016 as the nation's top assistant. He's been on the staff of teams that have won three national titles and appeared in eight national championship games.

“He knows the formula to win national championships and has the toughness, the attitude and the fight that I think will elevate our program in a lot of positive ways,” said Stoops, who has been serving as interim coach since Riley's surprising departure last week for Southern California. “I’ve always loved his energy, excitement and passion for the game — it clearly spills over to his players.”

Venables, who will be a head coach for the first time, said in a statement he's excited to add to the history of a program that's won seven national titles and had seven Heisman Trophy winners. He also said he's embracing the Sooners’ eventual move to the Southeastern Conference, which is set for 2025.

“There’s no question we are equipped to compete at the very highest level and attract the best players from across the country,” he said. “The OU logo has never been stronger.”

Under Venables, Clemson led the nation in scoring defense in 2018, and his 2020 unit tied for the lead in sacks. This season, Clemson ranks second nationally in scoring defense, ninth in total defense, eighth in rushing defense and sixth in pass efficiency defense.

Oklahoma was caught off guard when Riley took the job at USC. Stoops took over on an interim basis to calm things down during recruiting.

Venables quickly emerged as a fan favorite for the job. Many had hoped the Sooners could lure him back from Clemson as defensive coordinator after the Sooners fired coordinator Mike Stoops in 2018. The Sooners chose Alex Grinch, who left to join Riley at USC.

Support Local Journalism
Your subscription makes our reporting possible.
Venables' first concerns will be to prevent players from transferring and salvage as much of the recruiting class as possible. Several players announced their intentions to enter the transfer portal after Riley’s decision, including quarterback Spencer Rattler. Numerous recruits decommitted, including Malachi Nelson — a five-star quarterback who now says he is heading to USC.

Riley set the bar high. He went 55-10 in five seasons with the Sooners and led them to three College Football Playoff appearances. Quarterbacks Baker Mayfield and Kyler Murray both won Heisman trophies and were No. 1 overall picks in the NFL draft.

The Sooners went 10-2 this season and fell just short of competing for what would have been a seventh consecutive Big 12 title. They lost their regular-season finale 37-33 to Oklahoma State.

Oklahoma athletic director Joe Castiglione believes the Sooners are primed to achieve more under Venables.

“There is no doubt in my mind he is the right man to lead OU football into its next great era,” Castiglione said in a statement. “We couldn’t be more excited for Brent to return to OU as our head coach.”

———

AP College Football Writer Ralph D. Russo contributed to this report.

———

Follow Cliff Brunt on Twitter: https://twitter.com/CliffBruntAP

———

More AP college football: https://apnews.com/hub/college-football and https://twitter.com/AP—Top25. Sign up for the AP’s college football newsletter: https://apnews.com/cfbtop25

Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.

Locations
Oklahoma United States North America
Tags
Sports College Football Football College Sports Coaching Sports Team Management Changes Sports Transactions Sports Business School Athletics Education Social Affairs Athlete Recruiting
Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Be the first to know
Get local news delivered to your inbox!

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Most Popular
STATE & REGION
Winning numbers drawn in 'Pick 4 Evening' game
Updated Nov 28, 2021
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — The winning numbers in Sunday evening's drawing of the South Carolina Lottery's "Pick 4 Evening" game were:

 +2SC House special session avoids anything but redistricting
STATE & REGION
SC House special session avoids anything but redistricting
Dec 1, 2021
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — The South Carolina House started its redistricting special session on Wednesday with an assurance that they will likely …

STATE & REGION
Winning numbers drawn in 'Palmetto Cash 5' game
Updated Nov 27, 2021
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — The winning numbers in Saturday evening's drawing of the South Carolina Lottery's "Palmetto Cash 5" game were:

STATE & REGION
SC Forecast
Updated Dec 2, 2021
SC Forecast for Saturday, December 4, 2021

STATE & REGION
AP source: Oklahoma has hired Clemson defensive coordinator Brent Venables as its head coach
Updated 20 hrs ago
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) — AP source: Oklahoma has hired Clemson defensive coordinator Brent Venables as its head coach.

 +6Clemson wins 7th straight over rival South Carolina 30-0
STATE & REGION
Clemson wins 7th straight over rival South Carolina 30-0
Nov 27, 2021
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Clemson finished an unusual season in a very familiar way with a dominating win over rival South Carolina.

STATE & REGION
SC Greenville-Spartanburg SC Zone Forecast
Updated Dec 2, 2021
SC Greenville-Spartanburg SC Zone Forecast for Wednesday, December 1, 2021

STATE & REGION
SC Charleston SC Zone Forecast
Updated Dec 2, 2021
SC Charleston SC Zone Forecast for Wednesday, December 1, 2021

STATE & REGION
SC Forecast
Updated Nov 30, 2021
SC Forecast for Thursday, December 2, 2021

Recommended for you
site-logo
 
Sites & Partners
Hartsville Messenger
The Marion Star & Mullins Enterprise
Newsletter Signup
Services
Manage Subscription
Contact us
Advertise
Photo Submissions
Independent Contractor (Newspaper Carrier)
Join our Team
© Copyright 2021 Morning News, 310 S. Dargan Street Florence, SC | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

