Myrtle Beach Restaurants Local Guide with 22,673 Restaurant Reviews, news and Grand Strand Dining Info
Restaurants in Myrtle Beach South Carolina
Highest Rated Restaurants Who Gets the Most Reviews? Restaurant News Coupons & Discounts Editors Table Add Your Restaurant

 
The #1 LOCAL Guide to Restaurants
in the Myrtle Beach area
22,673
The Myrtle Beach Restaurants Local Guide
This Myrtle Beach Restaurants Guide is a resource for both locals and visitors searching for places to dine on the Grand Strand, with reviews by regular people who've eaten at our vast number of restaurants.

The reviews on this site, by our website visitors and diners, include the many places to eat in the areas of Myrtle Beach, Little River, North Myrtle Beach, Murrells Inlet, Calabash, Surfside Beach, Garden City, Pawleys Island, Sunset Beach, and every other area along the Strand.

Not everyone visiting the Myrtle Beach area plays golf or shops for souveniers, not all locals and vacationers swim at the beach; and not every group coming to town attends the various shows and attractions.

At one time or another, however, all visitors and all locals share a common activity: eating out at the wide variety of area restaurants, and this guide is here to help with the multitude of choices.


Myrtle Beach Restaurant News
Overtime Sport Bar in North Myrtle Beach has CLOSED
Overtime Sport Bar in North Myrtle Beach has closed. A call to the restaurant this morning confirmed this. No more information is available at this time. This is sad since it was a favorite for locals and visitors alike. They had the best Wings.
Restaurants everywhere are now offering their customers a wifi connection as more and more people prefer to dine where free, wireless internet is available. It's no different in the Myrtle Beach area, and there are multiple local restaurants with wifi.

Restaurants with WIFI
We've added the "wifi" symbol next to a restaurant's listing to show those who offer it, as well as expanded our section dedicated to listing those with wifi, since most people are connected via their cellphones, tablets, laptops and ipads...

Read more restaurant news.


How this guide is organized
In order to make it as easy as possible to find great places to dine on the Grand Strand, we've separated restaurants by type of cuisine served, like seafood buffets, steak houses, Italian, Japanese, Irish, international, etc.

You can also locate where to eat by area, such as Murrells Inlet, North Myrtle Beach, Georgetown, Surfside Beach, Little River, and other coastal areas of the Grand Strand.

Please note that we've separated out the areas of Restaurant Row, Barefoot Landing, Broadway at the Beach, Cherry Grove, and Myrtle Beach Mall (formerly Colonial Mall) either because of the number of great dining choices at a location, or to make it easier to find a place to eat while at a shopping complex or while enjoying a few hours at an entertainment complex.

Write your own reviews...it's easy!
Oscars in North Myrtle Beach
If you've just eaten at a fabulous place, or one not so fabulous, share the experience and write a review!

We've provided a very easy-to-use rating system of 1 to 5 stars (one being poor quality and 5 being excellent quality) for things like atmosphere, food quality, time to be seated, noise level, and more.

We've included photos of various places to dine and provide free, courtesy links to web sites that we know about.


Why and how this information can help
The Grand Strand covers quite a bit of distance along the northern coast of South Carolina and the southern coast of North Carolina, and with so many choices of where to eat on the Grand Strand, even locals know how difficult it is to pick only a few a day!

Dining with Entertainment
For many years, newcomers and visitors to Myrtle Beach have been wanting more information on the web about the seemingly overwhelming dining choices in our area.

This site is the end result of all the requests we've received, and we are happy that after years of planning, we're finally able to help those near and far seeking more information about available dining choices in this area.

The editors and staff of this site love to eat out, value the variety of cuisines in our local area, look for good restaurants that are reasonably priced, with quality food, service, and atmosphere, and hope this site helps all locals and visitors learn more about the great dining choices available on the Grand Strand.

MBSCR Editors & Staff
Special thanks to Mark Denski for his contribution of south-end photos, and to everyone who submitted photos for this site.

Myrtle Beach Restaurants
Home Page
22,673 Reviews
Restaurants by Area
Barefoot Landing
Broadway at the Beach
Calabash
Carolina Forest
Cherry Grove
Conway
Garden City
Georgetown
Litchfield Beach
Little River
Longs
Market Common
Murrells Inlet
Myrtle Beach
Myrtle Beach Mall
North Myrtle Beach
Ocean Isle
Pawleys Island
Restaurant Row
Shallotte
Socastee
Sunset Beach
Surfside Beach
Restaurants by Type
American
Bakery
Bar & Grill
Barbecue
Breakfast
Chinese
Coffee & Tea House
Delivery & Take Out
European
Fondue
German
Greek
Ice cream & Desserts
Indian
International
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Jewish
Mediterranean
Mexican
Other
Pizza
Seafood
Steak House
Thai
Theme
Special Cusines
Restaurants serving Vegan or Raw Foods
Open during Holidays
Valentines Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
New Years Eve
New Years Day
Additional Navigation
Help
Area Map
Site Map
Text Site Map
Gone, gone, gone...
Archives


Updated
12-06-2021


FAQs

Be our friend on Facebook

Restaurants with WiFi

Restaurant Videos

Follow MBSCr on Twitter

RECENTLY ADDED RESTAURANTS
Surveys, Polls & Results

EDITORS
TABLE

visits
WEB SITE STATISTICS

ABOUT OUR
COMPANY &
THIS SITE

HELP &
FEEDBACK

Site Map | Terms & Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy
About Us | Contact Us
©1999-2021 MBSCr Reproduction prohibited.