Skip to main content

Back to homepage
Please subscribe to keep reading.
Enjoy unlimited articles at one of our lowest prices ever. You can cancel at any time.
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on fremonttribune.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Fremont Tribune
EDITOR'S PICK TOP STORY
Oak Creek Vineyard’s Sousek to be featured on Women in Ag webcast
Tammy Greunke 2 min ago  0
Kara Sousek
Kara Sousek, a fifth-generation farmer from Prague, will be featured during the "Open for Business: A Nebraska Women in Agripreneurship Series" live webcast. The webcast, set for 6:30 p.m. Dec. 14, is free to attend but registration is required on the Nebraska Women in Agriculture program website, https://wia.unl.edu. 

Courtesy
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Tammy Greunke
“Open for Business: A Nebraska Women in Agripreneurship Series” will feature Kara Sousek, of Oak Creek Vineyard, during its next live webcast at 6:30 p.m. Dec. 14.

Produced by Nebraska Women in Agriculture, the monthly webcast series highlights the entrepreneurial spirit of women in agribusiness from across the state, offering creative insights and the stories behind what it takes to build a business.

The conversations focus on surviving business shocks such as disasters, regulatory changes and shifting family dynamics. Featured business leaders are interviewed by Brittany Fulton, extension assistant with the Nebraska Women in Agriculture program.

Sousek is a fifth-generation farmer from Prague, Nebraska. She studied horticulture at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and minored in the Engler Entrepreneurship Program. While she grew up surrounded by corn, beans, cows and pigs on the family farm, she felt drawn to diversified agriculture. She started working for Oak Creek Vineyard, near Raymond, early in her college career and became manager soon after graduating. The same year, she planted her own first acre of grape vines on the family farm by Prague.

People are also reading…
Police arrest Fremont man
Police arrest Omaha man
Lauren Stivrins’ grandma was a season ticket holder. Then her granddaughter became one of the stars of the Nebraska volleyball team
Rinne to retire as president, CEO of Fremont Family YMCA
For the past few years, Sousek has leased Oak Creek Vineyard from her former boss after he retired and is in the process of purchasing the vineyard. Through those years, she has held several day jobs related to her horticulture degree, and currently is the production manager at Great Plains Nursery in Weston. She plans on transitioning to running the vineyard full time soon, but currently manages the vineyards with her brother-in-law, in addition to their day jobs.

Sousek’s passion for the Nebraska wine industry is clear in her stated mission to provide the quality and quantity of grapes that Nebraska wineries need to produce exceptional wines and to grow their businesses.

The webcast is free to attend but registration is required on the Nebraska Women in Agriculture program website, https://wia.unl.edu.

Tags
Agriculture Nebraska Women In Agriculture Oak Creek Vineyard
Be the first to know
Get local news delivered to your inbox!

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Tammy Greunke
Reporter/news assistant

I'm a native of Cedar Bluffs who reports on entertainment news, general news and sports.

Author facebook Author twitter Author email
Related to this story
WATCH NOW: Hands of Heartland's Creatables store features items made by people with disabilities
WATCH NOW: Hands of Heartland's Creatables store features items made by people with disabilities
In preparing for the launch of Hands of Heartland’s Creatables store, Faye Kreikemeier said the individuals they serve have held meetings with…

Rinne to retire as president, CEO of Fremont Family YMCA
Rinne to retire as president, CEO of Fremont Family YMCA
Fremonter Pat Tews readily tells a story about Jerry Rinne’s compassion.

Rinne recalls Sidner Ice Arena beginnings
Rinne recalls Sidner Ice Arena beginnings
As he looks toward retirement, Jerry Rinne is grateful for the role he was able to play in Sidner Ice Arena’s construction.

Fremont Tribune
  
Sites & Partners
The Plattsmouth Journal
Lincoln Journal Star
Beatrice Daily Sun
Columbus Telegram
Services
Subscribe
Advertise with us
Contact us
Newsletters
Work here
© Copyright 2021 Fremont Tribune, 135 N. Main St. Fremont,NE | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

