KSP investigating officer-involved shooting
-AA+A
Suspect arrested for attempted murder of a police officer
By Tammy Shaw
Monday, November 29, 2021 at 8:29 am (Updated: November 30, 8:56 am)
PopularRelated
Olympus Wrestling opens in La Grange
Berg gone, memories vivd
Eminence mayor to finish term if no candidate found
EPD arrests Louisville man for meth
KSP investigating officer-involved shooting
New voter mandates causing problems
Old Blue Ribbon Part 1: The farm
EIS to talk masks in December
more
 Shots fired, no one hurt

 

No one was injured when an Eminence police officer returned fire with a suspect Thanksgiving night.

Eminence Police officer, Major John Dudinskie arrived at a domestic call at the corner of Sulphur Avenue and McElroy Street around 8:45 p.m. Thursday.

Dudinskie and the suspect, Marvin Galvez, 21 of Eminence, exchanged fire. No one was hit, but the officer’s truck is out of commission with a blown-out windshield and back window.

EIS Chief Mike Wells estimates 6 or 7 bullet holes hit the vehicle.

Dudinskie fired three rounds to Galvez’s dozen, allegedly.

Kentucky State Police Post 5 in Campbellsburg are investigating. “Any time there is an officer-involved shooting, it is our policy to get an outside agency to investigate,” Wells said.

 

Charges

Galvez was arrested on scene and is held at Oldham County Detention Center, charged with attempted murder, police officer, and wanton endangerment, 1st degree.

“Major Dudinskie did an excellent job,” Wells said. “He is our most veteran officer and was on the SWAT team in Frankfort. He did a great job preserving human life.”

 

Tactics

The officer angled his vehicle between the suspect and others on scene and himself, using tactics officers learn throughout their career and hope they never need. “No one wants to experience this, but it’s something we train our whole career for, to rely on tactics instead of fear or anxiety. We were fortunate no one was hurt.”

According to Wells, a woman on scene wanted to shake the officer’s hand, saying he did what he had to do to diffuse the situation.

Wells ordered the officer to take a few days off to relax before coming back to work.

EPD, Henry County Sheriff and KSP were on scene.