Dixon to hold Christmas decorating contest
By Chezney Carrier Nov 9, 2021 Updated Nov 9, 2021 
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
The city of Dixon has voted and passed a proposal to have a Christmas decorating contest for all the residents and businesses in the city of Dixon. Participants will be judged by a selection of non-local judges. Prizes will be made up of gift certificates to different local establishments to give back to the small businesses in the community of Dixon.

There will be awards given for first, second and third place winners. The first place prize will be a $100 gift certificate, second place prize will be a $50 gift certificate and third place will be a $25 gift certificate.

The food trucks that were once located at Bakers Park will continue to serve the community at 71 Highway 41A North, in the lot where the farmers market is located. The food trucks don’t have set days or times but are usually present and up for business Monday, Tuesday and/or Thursdays. Ten% of all profits made by each food truck go to the city of Dixon.

The Meal offered every year to the fire Department and Commissioners will take place on December 9th at 6pm at Dixon Fire station and will be provided by Commissioner Jeffery Graham.

Dixon Water Department has still not been able to locate the water leak on Highway 132, although chlorine has been found and many holes have been dug. They are still working to determine the cause and stop the leak.

Bakers Park should not need to be mowed anymore this year and bathrooms have been closed for the season.

Commissioners approved establishing a contract between the City of Dixon and Green River Area Development to administer the ARPA (previously the CARES Act). Green River Area Development will receive 1% of funds for administering the payments. Out of the $114,000 the city of Dixon was granted $13,000 has been used. The Returned Check fee ordinance was also passed as Ordinance 10.100 stating a $25 fee will be owed on all returned checks.