
A budtender pours marijuana from a jar in Los Angeles, California. 

David McNew/Getty Images
A self-described “hippie anthropologist,” East Greenbush Supervisor Jack Conway knows a thing or two about the 1960s when marijuana use was identified as a staple of the counter culture, but not widely used or accepted by most Americans.

“Marijuana has proven to be beneficial socially and individually, less harmful than alcohol and tobacco,” said the 69-year-old retired Skidmore College assistant professor, who recalled in response to a resident's question about whether he ever smoked pot, answered that he “tried it once for 20 years.” 

“How can it be illegal in a free country, but more importantly, unlike alcohol and tobacco, marijuana has 150 critical medical uses so it’s time for this whole cultural baggage about marijuana to be lifted because very quietly tens of millions of people smoke pot in this country already before legalization,” he said.

Acceptance of marijuana use has grown in the decades since Conway was a teenager. Last year, New York legalized the sale of recreational marijuana and now local governments are deciding whether to allow marijuana dispensaries and lounges within their borders. Conway is confident his town will allow dispensaries. But some local suburban towns are not as enthusiastic.

Glenville, Niskayuna, Ballston and Wilton have opted out of allowing marijuana shops. Colonie and Clifton Park are weighing legislation that forbids lounges where people can smoke marijuana.

New York is one of more than a dozen states that have legalized recreational marijuana. American consumption of the drug has increased over the last half century. A Gallup poll conducted in August showed 49 percent of Americans say they've tried marijuana, though only 12 percent say they are marijuana smokers. Fifty years ago, just 4 percent said they had tried the drug. In recent years, the percentage of Americans who consider themselves smokers has hovered between 11 and 13 percent.

The East Greenbush Town Board will hold a public hearing Thursday on a local law to opt out of lounges that allow on-site cannabis consumption. Conway is confident East Greenbush leaders will back dispensaries. A formal vote is slated for Dec. 15. 

Conway is annoyed by the tenor of discussions in many municipalities as communities debate whether to open the door to dispensaries and establishments where people can freely smoke. 

Cities, towns and villages have the choice of whether they want dispensaries and on-site consumption lounges within their limits.

To opt out, a municipality must pass a local law by Dec. 31, nine months after the state's "The Marihuana Regulation and Taxation Act" took effect. If a municipality does not opt out by the end of the year, they will not have another opportunity to do so. 

In the future, municipalities that opt out can repeal the local law and allow the establishment of shops and lounges. 

All local laws associated with opting out of retail dispensaries or on-site consumption licenses are subject to a permissive referendum.

There will be a 13-percent tax on marijuana sales with a 9-percent excise tax that will go to the state. The county and cities, towns and villages will share the remaining 4 percent at 25 and 75 percent, respectively.

A dispensary is a location, typically inside a retail store front or office building, where patients or consumers can access cannabis and cannabis-related items for medical or recreational use.

The state must still spell out the rules and regulations that will govern the operation of marijuana dispensaries and other establishments. 

When passed last year, the state's law immediately decriminalized the possession of less than 3 ounces of marijuana for adults 21 and older.

Niskayuna and Glenville have already opted out of housing dispensaries and lounges on the notion marijuana use sends a bad message especially to teens and opens the door to problems that far outweigh profits, tax revenue and any other benefits.

Critics also expressed anxieties about buzzed driving, second-hand smoke, and the adverse physical, social, mental and social tolls of marijuana on young people.  

Glenville Supervisor Chris Koetzle said the town wanted to see what rules the state enacts before deciding whether to get into the cannabis business. 

“We said ‘let’s just wait and see what the state does as far as regulations, how the market develops as well, and let’s wait and see and then make a decision,’ but the state told us that if we don’t opt out by now, then we can never opt out, so it makes sense to opt out and wait and see,” said Koetzle.  

Still, other communities like the village of Ballston Spa in October by a narrow 3-2 margin voted to opt in, Mayor Christine M. Fitzpatrick said. 

“There was the feeling that it’s legal, it exists, and there will be tax revenue that will accrue to us as a result of it,” Fitzpatrick said. She said she supported the idea of dispensaries but was against having lounges with on-site use.

Conway, who challenged the idea that marijuana is a gateway drug to other drugs, said East Greenbush will likely support being a hosting site for marijuana dispensaries.

“We have Columbia Turnpike, which for 15 years has needed to be revitalized, and we’re making great progress, a dispensary with 3 percent tax going directly to  the municipality, on Columbia Turnpike would be a game changer,” said Conway. He added neither he nor others on the governing body have the grandiose notion that the town will be rolling in money from the day dispensaries open. “It’s the kind of business that can generate traffic, can generate people who will stop at a restaurant or grocery store.” 

He argued that in years from now, dispensaries will boom, much in the same way liquor stores that have become a staple. 

Incoming Colonie town Supervisor Peter Crummey, a former town justice, said the town has approved dispensaries but not on-site consumption businesses.

“We’re waiting on state (regulations) as to how to implement such an establishment in conjunction with applicable planning and zoning laws,” said Crummey, who takes office in January.

He hopes any future cannabis proceeds that flow into the town’s coffers will be used to fund education programs on marijuana. 

He said that the town board's decision making was guided by the recommendation of former Colone Police Chief Jonathan Teale, who retired in June.    

Like Colonie and East Greenbush, many local governments have relied on the expertise of police leaders to guide them. 

They can also look to the state Association of Towns as a resource. 

Sarah Brancatela, who works for the association, said that “lots of towns” have reached out to the group for guidance “in an effort to better understand how the law works and what the scope of their authority is.” The association has a guide available on its web site to help out. She said towns are opting out “primarily in response to the feedback they are getting from their communities” and that the association has not taken a stance on the matter.  

The Bethlehem Town Board will consider the matter on Wednesday, Supervisor David VanLuven said. 

A public hearing was held late last month.

VanLuven said that none of the Town Board members have publicly state their position.   

He pointed out, however, that in this case age isn’t just a number, but more of a barometer of how people feel about buying and smoking pot in a public place.   

“One of the patterns I’m observing is older generations grew up with the perspective that marijuana consumption is a bad thing, and  if were to have on-site retail, it would be along the lines of an adult book store, something that someone would want to go in in secret, whereas young generations view marijuana consumption in very much the same way as they view tobacco and alcohol, it’s something that lots of people are doing, there’s no shame or any reason to be embarrassed, and they’d be perfectly comfortable having a retail dispensary or on site consumption in the commercial part of town,” he said. 

Rotterdam also has a vote coming up soon.

Back in Ballston Spa, Fitzpatrick, the mayor, said village officials will now turn their attention to making sure that cannabis businesses are properly zoned, and that patrons follow the rules and regulations, so that, for example, people are not exposed to second hand smoke.  

 