
Search...
Home
News
Sports
Obituaries
Opinion
Arts & Life
Calendar
Photo and Video
Ads
eEdition
More
Toggle navigation
site-logo
Next Up
NEXT UP
A spirit of Christmas in Le Roy Saturday	
A spirit of Christmas in Le Roy Saturday
LE ROY — The spirit of Christmas was alive and well in Le Ro…

Batavia celebrates Christmas in the City
By MALLORY DIEFENBACH
mdiefenbach@batavianews.com
 Dec 6, 2021 Updated 9 hrs ago 
1 of 12












Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
BATAVIA — After being absent last year due to COVID, Batavia’s Christmas in the City kept Main Street busy on Saturday afternoon.

People walked up and down Main Street, visiting different shops and locations to ride a train, visit Santa, make a stop at Whoville or enjoy a nice cup of hot chocolate.

Waiting in line to see Santa with her 5-year-old son, Amoni, Marya Cole of Batavia said he had been looking forward to this all week.

“I’m glad events are inside this year,” she said, holding on to Amoni’s hand as the line slowly inched forward.

While Cole has been coming to Christmas in the City for the past five years, this was the first year for Ruth Cruppner of Bergen.

Hearing about it from a friend, by 3:30 p.m., she had been up and down Main Street and visited Islands Hawaiian Grill for a cup of hot chocolate.

“I’m amazed at the number of people and vendors,” she said, adding she was looking forward to the parade later in the evening as well.

Sue McKay, of Delevan, was also a new face at Christmas in the City. Selling mittens, washcloths and scrubbers in her shop, called “Grandma’s Love Boutique,” she said she heard about Christmas in the City while at an All Babies Cherished event in October. It was her sixth show, and while Friday and early Saturday was slow, it picked up quickly in the afternoon.

“The children’s mittens are a big seller,” she said.

McKay said she’s knitted since she was young, taught by her grandmother and then her in-law grandparents. She would do custom Christmas stockings which she would make each time someone new came into the family. The snowflake design came from her great-grandmother, which she used as a base for her other designs.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
2 remaining of 3
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

Tags
Bdn News Top Stories News Local Front Page
mdiefenbach
mdiefenbach



Most Popular
Three men arrested after pursuit of stolen vehicle in Genesee, Orleans counties
BREAKING: Batavia City Schools cancel Friday classes as police investigate reported social media threats
Wyoming County declares state of emergency
Man charged with fraudulently collecting nearly $40,000 in disability
Gifts of gratitude: Heart transplant patient’s wife shows true appreciation
Sections
News
Sports
Obituaries
Lifestyles
Opinion
Photo and Video
Online Features
Services
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Calendar
Email Alerts
Search
Weather
site-logo
Contact Information
batavianews.com
438 East Main St.
Batavia, NY 14020
Phone: (585) 343-8000
Email: customerservice@batavianews.com
© Copyright 2021 The Daily News, 438 East Main St. Batavia, NY | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
