Record number of COVID-19 patients in ICU, on ventilators in Maine
As of Monday, there are 112 COVID patients in the ICU and 60 on ventilators in Maine. Both are record highs for the state. Updated December 6, 2021.

NEWS CENTER Maine Staff



Play VideoClose Video


MAINE VACCINE DATA

Current data for Maine's vaccine progress

DAILY CORONAVIRUS UPDATES

Daily Maine coronavirus updates on case data, deaths, outbreaks, and more

COVID-19 TRANSMISSION IN MAINE COUNTIES

Masking indoors is recommended in areas of 'substantial' or 'high' community transmission

HOW TO GET VACCINATED

To get the COVID-19 vaccine, you must make an appointment

VACCINE AND COVID-19 BASICS

Understanding COVID-19


As Maine continues its fight against the coronavirus, vaccine rollout is among the top priorities for public health officials and Maine Gov. Janet Mills. 

MAINE VACCINE DATA
Current data for Maine's vaccine progress
MAINE DAILY UPDATE COVID-19 VACCINATION DATA
All people age 5 and older are eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine in Maine. The Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines are available for people 18 and older.

Kids ages 5-11 became eligible to get Pfizer's vaccine as of November 2.

Non-Maine residents can also get vaccinated in Maine. 

The state's appointment system is live here.

Click here for information on where to get a COVID-19 vaccine appointment for kids ages 5-11 in Maine.

Data as of Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021:

Total Maine vaccine doses: 2,158,300
First Dose: 904,904
Final Dose: 924,614
Booster: 328,782
Note: Johnson & Johnson vaccination data is included in the "Final dose" data because it's considered the only dose needed. 

The Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention vaccine dashboard is generally updated each day at 10 a.m. to include data from the previous day. NEWS CENTER Maine will update as soon as the data becomes available.

DAILY CORONAVIRUS UPDATES
Daily Maine coronavirus updates on case data, deaths, outbreaks, and more
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6
The Maine CDC reported no additional deaths of people with COVID-19. The state death toll stands at 1,336.

The Maine CDC reported no additional COVID-19 cases in the state. 

The Maine CDC updates COVID-19 case data on the website by 9:30 a.m. Tuesday through Saturday.

Of the 123,118 COVID-19 cases that have been reported throughout the pandemic, 87,973 have been confirmed and 35,145 have been probable.

As of Monday, 361 people in Maine are hospitalized with COVID-19. Of those, 112 are in critical care and 60 are on ventilators. All three of these statistics are record highs for Maine, according to the Maine CDC.

As of Monday, there are 46 available critical care beds in Maine — 34 adult beds and 12 youth beds.


All Maine adults age 18 and older are eligible to receive a COVID-19 booster shot, regardless of an underlying medical condition.

People ages 18 and over may receive a booster shot in Maine if:

They completed the two-dose Pfizer or Moderna vaccine series at least six months ago; OR
They received the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine at least two months ago.
Click here to watch Wednesday's state COVID-19 and vaccine briefing.

Portland restaurant giving out vaccine boosters
Mainers say their COVID-19 vaccine appointments at Walgreens getting canceled at last minute
3 things you need to know from Maine's COVID-19 briefing: Omicron variant, impact on hospitals, and booster appointments
Lewiston Public Schools see increase in COVID-19 cases
LIST: Where have omicron cases been confirmed in the US?
MAINE CDC BRIEFING: WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1

The Maine CDC conducts case investigations and contact tracing Monday through Friday and updates COVID-19 case data on the website by 9:30 a.m. Tuesday through Saturday.

Long said outbreak investigations will continue as they have throughout the pandemic, and the Maine CDC will continue to issue notifications of elevated public risk whenever elevated public risk is identified.

MAINE COVID-19 COUNTY BY COUNTY DATA



COVID-19 TRANSMISSION IN MAINE COUNTIES
Masking indoors is recommended in areas of 'substantial' or 'high' community transmission








The U.S. CDC recommends that fully vaccinated people wear a mask in public indoor settings in areas of "substantial or high" community transmission.

Here's where Maine counties stand as of Monday, Dec. 6:

High

Waldo County
Piscataquis County
Penobscot County
Aroostook County
Somerset County
York County
Hancock County
Kennebec County
Cumberland County
Franklin County
Oxford County
Androscoggin County
Lincoln County
Sagadahoc County
Washington County
Knox County
RELATED: Maine's updated mask guidance explained

HOW TO GET VACCINATED
To get the COVID-19 vaccine, you must make an appointment


Appointments are required at most locations, but some clinics offer walk-in appointments. Availability is dependent on vaccine supply. These listings are subject to change and will be updated regularly.

How to get an appointment
Major hospital systems and their sponsored vaccine sites, like MaineHealth and Northern Light Health
School-based vaccine clinics: districts will notify parents
Retail pharmacies: Walgreens, Walmart, Hannaford, Sam’s Club, Shaw’s
Federally Qualified Healthcare Centers
Maine EMS drive-thru sites
You can sign up for an appointment at www.vaccinateME.maine.gov or call 1-888-445-4111
CLICK HERE FOR MORE DETAILS ON HOW TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT

The state also maintains this list of vaccine sites.




Note: Online appointments are only available for those age 18 older. The Pfizer vaccine is authorized for individuals ages 12 and older, but consent from a parent or legal guardian is required to vaccinate children. 

Maine DHHS says in the coming days, the list of vaccination sites will indicate which are able to vaccinate youth.

VACCINE AND COVID-19 BASICS
Understanding COVID-19


The answers to these questions have been derived from the U.S. CDC, Maine CDC, and various health experts.

What is the vaccine?
Three COVID-19 vaccines, one by Pfizer, one by Moderna, and one by Johnson & Johnson, have received emergency-use authorization by the FDA and are currently in distribution across the country. Several others are in development.

Johnson & Johnson's single-shot vaccine, which U.S. regulators say offers strong protection against severe COVID-19, was given emergency use authorization from the FDA on Feb. 27.

U.S. regulators said transplant recipients and others with weakened immune systems can get an extra dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to better protect them as the delta variant continues to surge.

The FDA has only granted emergency-use approval of the Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, but the agency is expected to soon give full approval to Pfizer.

Fauci hopeful COVID vaccines get full OK by FDA within weeks
Extra COVID vaccine dose authorized for those with weak immune systems
J&J's single-shot COVID vaccine gets FDA emergency use authorization
Why doctors aren't focused on Johnson & Johnson's lower vaccine efficacy
Comparing Pfizer, Moderna, and J&J shots isn't an apples-to-apples comparison
Fauci: Whatever COVID vaccine is available, take it
Can the vaccine make me sick with COVID-19?
No. The vaccines in distribution do not contain the live virus that causes COVID-19.

So, how do they work?
The vaccines teach our immune systems how to recognize and fight the virus that causes COVID-19. Sometimes this process can cause symptoms such as fever. These symptoms are normal and are a sign that the body is building protection against the virus that causes COVID-19.




Are there any side effects?

Common side effects include soreness or swelling at the injection site, fever, chills, tiredness, and/or a headache in the days following vaccination. Occasionally, there are more serious reactions or "adverse reactions" to the vaccine. Federal authorities are tracking those reactions through an online database.

Learn more about side effects here.

Tracking serious COVID-19 vaccine reactions
How do we know the COVID-19 vaccines are safe?
One COVID vaccine side effect could be confused for breast cancer symptom
How many doses do I need?
The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines each call for two doses. An interval of 21 to 28 days between doses is recommended, but the World Health Organization has said that the interval can be extended up to six weeks amid vaccine supply constraints.

The Johnson & Johnson vaccine only requires one dose.

U.S. regulators said transplant recipients and others with weakened immune systems can get an extra dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to better protect them as the delta variant continues to surge.

Which vaccine should I get?
Health experts say to take whichever vaccine is available. The evidence of effectiveness shows no reason to favor one vaccine over another.

In fact, you can't choose which vaccine you get. Here's a VERIFY about that.




VERIFY: No, you don't get to choose which COVID-19 vaccine you get
Fauci encourages Americans to take the vaccine 'most available to them'
Comparing Pfizer, Moderna, and J&J shots isn't an apples-to-apples comparison
How much does the vaccine cost?
The COVID-19 vaccine will be provided by the federal government at no cost to enrolled COVID-19 vaccination providers. Administration fees may vary.




RELATED: VERIFY: The COVID-19 vaccine is free in Maine, even if you don't have insurance

Should I get vaccinated if I’ve already had the virus?
Yes. Regardless of the previous infection, the U.S. CDC says people should be vaccinated. If you’ve been infected in the last three months, the CDC says it's OK to delay vaccination if you want to let others go first while supplies are limited.

What are variants?

The U.S. CDC explains that viruses constantly change through mutation, and new variants of a virus are expected to occur. Sometimes new variants emerge and disappear. Other times, new variants persist. Numerous variants of the virus that causes COVID-19 are being tracked in the United States and globally during this pandemic.

Most variants cause similar COVID-19 symptoms. Some may cause more people to get sicker and die, for example, Alpha and Delta variants. 

What variants are of concern in the U.S.?

Alpha (B.1.1.7)
Beta (B.1.351)
Gamma (P.1)
Delta (B.1.617.2)
Click here to learn more about these variants.

RELATED: Yes, delta variant symptoms are slightly different than original COVID-19 strain symptoms

Will vaccines be effective against COVID-19 variants? 

FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines protect against Delta and other known variants.
These vaccines are effective at keeping people from getting COVID-19, getting very sick, and dying.
People who are vaccinated are also less likely to spread COVID-19.
The US CDC doesn’t know how effective the vaccines will be against new variants that may arise.
Learn more about variants from the U.S. CDC here.

How would COVID-19 vaccine makers adapt to variants?
Moderna has created COVID vaccine to battle South African variant
After I get the vaccine, do I have to keep wearing a mask?

The U.S. CDC updated its guidance on wearing masks in indoor public settings.

Here in Maine it means based on the level of community transmission of the coronavirus, people are encouraged to mask up, even if they are vaccinated. But contrary to what some people may think, mask usage is not mandatory in Maine.

Maine has adopted the latest public health guidelines of the U.S. CDC. Maine CDC Director Dr. Nirav Shah makes it clear that "these are recommendations, not requirements."

The CDC recommends that fully vaccinated people wear a mask in public indoor settings in areas of "substantial or high" community transmission.

"Substantial transmission" means at least 50 new cases per 100,000 people in the last seven days. "High transmission" is more than 100 cases per 100,000 people over the last week.

Click here to track community transmission in Maine.







RELATED: Maine's updated mask guidance explained

Click here for more vaccine information from the U.S. CDC.










RELATED: There is no evidence that Southwest Airlines cancellations were caused by workers protesting COVID-19 vaccine mandate