No ceremony for Lighting of the Nubble, but plenty to keep York holidays bright in 2021
Camille Fine
Portsmouth Herald








YORK, Maine – For the second year in a row, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there won't be a formal ceremony to kick off the Lighting of the Nubble.

The iconic lighthouse will be illuminated nightly over the holidays again this year, but organizers decided it would be best to avoid large social gatherings, according to York Parks and Recreation Department special events coordinator Liz Cooper.

In years past, when it was warm, the event had attracted up to 10,000 people, and attendees complained of long lines, Cooper said.

The iconic Nubble Lighthouse will be illuminated nightly over the holidays again this year, but organizers decided it would be best to avoid large social gatherings, according to York Parks and Recreation Department special events coordinator Liz Cooper.
A drive-thru for viewing the lighting this year wouldn't have been feasible due to traffic and safety concerns, and the cost of renting buses to shuttle people to and from Sohier Park would be enormous, Cooper said.

"Shuttling buses at a lower capacity didn’t make logistical or financial sense," she said.

'People love their lighthouse':Nubble restoration underway. Take a look inside.

Contractors work on securing the Christmas Lights at the Nubble Lighthouse in Cape Neddick, Maine on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021.
The holiday lights will be on every night from Saturday, Nov. 27, through New Year's Day. 

Lee Tree has again stepped up to string holiday lights in the Village and at the Nubble, Cooper said.

And there are plenty of other events in the local lineup to keep your holidays merry and full in York this holiday season. Give these a try:

The Lighting of the Nubble in 2017 proved to be a popular backdrop for selfies. In 2021, as in 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there will be no formal lighting ceremonies, but the Nubble will still be lit.
March in the Festival of Lights parade
The parade, which was canceled last year, will begin Saturday, Dec. 4, at 4:30 p.m. and will consist of marching bands, floats, antique cars, public service organizations, business establishments and much more, Cooper said, adding that she expects 40 or more floats to participate and several thousand people to attend.

Categories for this year’s event will be Best Children’s Float, Best Antique Car, Most Original, Most Traditional, Best Use of Lights, Most Musical and Best Business Float.

Santa makes his way through York Village during the Festival of Lights parade in 2015. The annual tradition was canceled in 2020 but revived for Dec. 4, 2021.
The route begins at Foster’s Clambake on Axholme Road and ends at Village Elementary School. Although an outdoor event, masks will be required when social distancing is not possible, regardless of vaccination status. 

Parade participants will not be able to distribute candy for "safety regulations," Parks and Recreation announced. 

Contractors work on securing the Christmas Lights at the Nubble Lighthouse in Cape Neddick, Maine on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021.
In addition to the parade, there will be live festivities for the Festival of Lights Dec. 1 through Dec. 12. 

"The festival of lights is held annually at the beginning of December to give thanks to the community for making York the delightful place it is and to celebrate the warmth and tradition of the season," Parks and Recreation said in its winter brochure.

Join in the Hanukkah giveaway
An online giveaway for Hanukkah will run from Nov. 29 through Dec. 6. Participants can find more information at the town Parks and Recreation social media channels. Giveaways include gift certificates and items from local businesses. 

Take in York student artwork
Artwork from York School Department students will be showcased during the Festival of Lights celebration, with an opening reception on Wednesday, Dec. 1, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at the York Art Association.

Artwork will be displayed until Sunday, Dec. 5, and available to view Friday and Saturday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., according to Parks and Recreation. 

Have breakfast with Santa
Breakfast with Santa will be Saturday, Dec. 4, at Arrowheads Estates from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. Some free food will be provided, and a full menu will be available of items for purchase, including a bloody Mary and mimosa bar for the grown-ups.

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
Paint holiday ornaments
Also on Dec. 4 is ornament painting from 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at Grant House Barn with Firefly Pottery. Ornaments are $3 each and will be kiln fired and ready for pick up at the Parks and Recreation office about one week after the event.

Spend time with the Grinch
Grinchmas, a new offering this year, is Thursday, Dec. 9, and includes a viewing of Dr. Seuss' "How The Grinch Stole Christmas" at York High School community auditorium. Other offerings include snacks, crafts, photos taken with the Grinch himself.

Registration is open until Monday, Dec. 6, with a capacity of 40 families per session. The two-hour-long sessions begin at 4 p.m. and 7 p.m., with families from both sessions watching the movie from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., according to Parks and Recreation.

Decorate holiday cookies
Sweet Celebrations, a take-home and in-person cookie decorating and educational event, is for ages 5-10 and provides a trio of cookies celebrating Christmas, Hanukkah and Kwanzaa.

The in-person activity will be Thursday, Dec 16, from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the Grant House, 300 U.S. Route 1. Registration is $25.

Listen to the wind ensemble
The winter community concert featuring the Seacoast Wind Ensemble is another new offering and will be the finale to end the festival on Sunday, Dec. 12, from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the York High School community auditorium, Cooper said.

Registration closes Dec. 12. Tickets for adults are $15. Tickets for children under 13 and adults over 50 are $13. 

Hunt for candy canes
Parks and Recreation will offer the Candy Cane Hunt for a second year in a row Dec. 1-17. Participants visit local businesses for a chance to win prizes. Entry forms and details will be available online a few days prior to the beginning of the event. 