   Search... Welcome, Guest SubscribeLog In Home News Community Opinion Obituaries Publications Classifieds eEdition Subscribe Toggle navigation site-logo HOLIDAY SPECIAL! - Click Here to view our latest E-Edition for FREE and Subscribe at 20% off! *Gift Subscriptions also available* Next Up NEXT UP Oregon State Parks annual parking permit $5 off in December	 Oregon State Parks annual parking permit $5 off in December Spice up your holiday gift giving this season by selecting f… FEATURED Dorsey named News Guard editor Staff Report Dec 6, 2021 Updated 6 min ago  0 Hilary Dorsey Hilary Dorsey Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Hilary Dorsey has been promoted to Editor of The News Guard in Lincoln City. She has been with Country Media, Inc. for two-and-a-half years as a reporter at the Headlight Herald in Tillamook. “We are so happy to have Hilary here at The News Guard,” said General Manager Robyn Smith. “She’s proven herself with our company in Tillamook and is a great fit here in Lincoln City.” Dorsey received her Bachelor of Science degree in Journalism from University of Oregon in December 2018. After graduating, she took a remote internship for the San Francisco News before joining Country Media, Inc. “We look forward to Hilary bringing her experience and hard work ethic to our team,” Smith said. “We have a lot of plans for our paper in 2022 and Hilary is the final piece to our team we needed to accomplish all we want to do moving forward.” While at the Headlight Herald in Tillamook, Dorsey covered a wide array of stories, features and sports. She is well versed in delivering news and information on all platforms like the website, Facebook and Twitter. She also covered the COVID-19 Pandemic in Tillamook County for the past 20 months. Dorsey also wrote for Country Media’s papers in Manzanita and Cannon Beach while she was in Tillamook. “We’re sorry to see Hilary leave us in Tillamook, but happy she is advancing her career with Country Media at our sister paper in Lincoln City,” said Joe Warren, publisher of the Headlight Herald in Tillamook. “We wish her luck in her new position.” Dorsey is married to her husband Zach and the couple have two dogs. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × Ads are being blocked by your browser. Please disable your ad blocker, whitelist our site, or purchase a subscription × 3 remaining of 4 Thank you for reading! Please support our site. SUBSCRIBE NOW! Online Poll What winter activities do you enjoy? Skiing/Snowboarding Fishing/crabbing Hiking Camping Sleeping I'm a hermit in the winter   Latest News Guard E-Edition The News Guard's E-Edition for 11-30-21 The News Guard's E-Edition for 11-30-21 View our 11-30-21 E-Edition right here! MORE Featured Articles Dorsey named News Guard editor COMMUNITY Dorsey named News Guard editor Omicron likely to reach Oregon soon NEWS Omicron likely to reach Oregon soon Lincoln County passes temporary moratorium for short-term rental licenses, pending pushback against ballot measure NEWS Lincoln County passes temporary moratorium for short-term rental licenses, pending pushback against ballot measure COVID-19 cases remain steady, expected increase after Thanksgiving holiday NEWS COVID-19 cases remain steady, expected increase after Thanksgiving holiday MORE Latest News Wounded sea otter succumbs to injuries NEWS Wounded sea otter succumbs to injuries City of Newport responds to sewage spill NEWS City of Newport responds to sewage spill State health officials take steps to bolster Oregon’s healthcare workforce NEWS State health officials take steps to bolster Oregon’s healthcare workforce Oregon State Parks annual parking permit $5 off in December COMMUNITY Oregon State Parks annual parking permit $5 off in December  (0) comments Welcome to the discussion. Connect With Us 	 Submit Your News We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! MORE This Week's Print Ads McKays Markets McKays Markets Church Of Christ Church Of Christ Crystals Chimney Service Crystals Chimney Service Andrews Painting Andrews Painting McEachern Audiology McEachern Audiology Signature Healthcare at Home Signature Healthcare at Home Trending This Week  Articles Death investigation of remains found of female child Hours-long standoff ends with 1 arrest COVID-19 update from Lincoln County Public Health 2021 Best of the Beach Police Blotter: Standoff, car engulfed in flames, stabbed in the face Fatal Crash on Hwy 101-Lincoln County Going Up: Dollar Tree moving price point to $1.25 for most items Scam Alert: Oregon DMV warns of new fraud Pet photos with Santa Claws fundraiser for new dog park Oregon State Hospital patient missing from Junction City campus Subscribe to our publication today! Subscribe for just $60.00/year, or claim your FREE access if you are already a subscriber. News Sports Community Obituaries Opinion Videos Weather About Us Contact Us Advertise Place an Ad Subscribe/Pay Online Site Submissions Privacy Policy Terms of Use    Contact Information 1818 N.E. 21st St. PO Box 848 Lincoln City, OR 97367 Phone: (541) 994-2178 Email: admin@countrymedia.net 