Submit Local Sports Opinion Obituaries Life Business Events Special Pubs 6-Day Index E-edition Subscribe Search Search... Toggle navigation Next Up NEXT UP Library List WHITMAN COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT FEATURED No red tape, just warm hands Yarn Underground owner continues tradition of free hats, gloves for those who need them By Kali Nelson, Moscow-Pullman Daily News Dec 4, 2021 Updated 4 min ago Comments 1 of 5 Facebook Twitter Email Print Save Shelley Stone started hanging free hats and gloves from a tree next to her business in 2015 as a way to provide winter warmth to anyone in the community who might need it. Six years later, the tree outside Moscow’s Yarn Underground continues to be decorated with the giveaways November through March. Stone said she wanted a way to give back to the community without people feeling like they have to prove they need the help. Stone’s yarn shop is on the corner of Washington and Fifth streets one block east of Main Street. Stone said in the past six years she’s found thank you notes tucked into the empty ziplock bags, and had people pop their heads into the store to thank the staff. Stone said sometimes she’ll walk outside to find donated children’s coats or slippers along with the regular hats, gloves and scarves. Stone welcomes the donations, but asks that each item is clean and carefully placed in a bag with a note on sizing. Stone said she isn’t one for putting rules on people. “So … there’s no red tape,” Stone said. “We’ll just put things there and if people feel that they have need, they can have it without me deciding for them. I think it’s nice that people admit they could use a little help and take it.” Stone usually puts out a call through an email list when the weather gets colder every year, but most years she doesn’t have to. Until recently this year, Stone said she hadn’t had time to put anything on the tree but, like clockwork, at the beginning of the month sandwich bags of knitted goods started appearing. “Even if people aren’t needy in their everyday life, maybe at this particular moment they’re cold and they could use a hat,” Stone said. She uses the hashtag #chasethechill, a movement Stone said has spread across the United States in the past decade. Inspired by the The Yarn Underground effort, the Unitarian Universalist Church of the Palouse in Moscow has for the last five years or so worked with the Moscow Public Library to offer free winter clothing, said Ginger Allen, the church’s director of family ministry. Allen said they had been working on a social action curriculum with the children in the congregation and they thought it would be a great program to start. The first year, Allen said she didn’t keep track but estimates they gave away about 30 to 50 items. Fast forward about five years to 2020 and they gave away over 300 hats, scarves, mittens and or socks. “People just seem in general really, really thankful,” Allen said. “As I’m hanging stuff up, people will stop in their cars and say thank you.” The church generally does not make available coats or other large items like boots because sizing can be harder on those items. They instead are given to another local charity, Allen said. “And so I know things are getting used, and I hope it’s kids going to school who forgot their gloves — to people who really can’t afford stuff and that’s how their kids are getting warm,” Allen said. Anyone interested in helping package the items to hang or to donate to the Chase the Chill can contact Allen at ginger.allen@palouseuu.org or leave items in a dropbox at the Moscow Public Library at 110 S. Jefferson St. Items for the tree next to Yarn Underground can be dropped off at the store during their business hours. The Yarn Underground is open noon to 5 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday. Kali Nelson can be reached at knelson@dnews.com. Facebook Twitter Email Print Save × 1 remaining of 2 Welcome! Please enjoy your free content for the month. Stories worth sharing Is there a holiday story we should be telling? Send us a note with some details to briefs@dnews.com and we’ll work to spread the word this holiday season. Tags Shelley Stone Ginger Allen Clothing Accessory Hat Yarn Glove Shop Winter Coat Recommended for you Commentary: Value in a library LIFE Commentary: Value in a library How they fared in the NFL SPORTS How they fared in the NFL  +15Upset bid foiled late SPORTS Upset bid foiled late WSU women play complete game in beating UC Davis SPORTS WSU women play complete game in beating UC Davis Washington State vs. Miami (Fla.): what to know SPORTS Washington State vs. Miami (Fla.): what to know Weekly primer: Time to spread some holiday cheer on the courts SPORTS Weekly primer: Time to spread some holiday cheer on the courts Cougs headed back to Sun Bowl SPORTS Cougs headed back to Sun Bowl  +6Alabama takes down No. 3 Gonzaga SPORTS Alabama takes down No. 3 Gonzaga Event calendar Event calendar Where you go for what you do. The region's best source for events, arts, culture ... everything. Subscriber email options Headlines, breaking news delivered to your inbox. Daily Headlines/Breaking News Enter email address Advertisement  Sponsored Content Ask a pro: Your go-to source for information from local professionals Ask a pro: Your go-to source for information from local professionals Trending What your neighbors are reading  Articles Hillcrest Motel closing; tenants seek new homes Moscow schools go without nurse Berneice L. “Bernie” Nagle Deaths Nancy Kathryn Bosse UI: Federal vaccine mandate raises concerns Moscow mayor removes mask requirement for city facilities UI partners with Uber to offer two free rides per day Deaths Helen Janet Gamble Zimet Webcams Webcams Travel safe with road and snow reports Archives Archives Search archives for the Daily News and Lewiston Tribune here. FEATURED JOBS Project Coordinator 12.01.21Renewables & Environment Driver 11.30.21Automotive, Hospital & Health Care Quality Control / Quality Assurance Manager 11.30.21Construction , Public-Utilities Dental Front Office 11.28.21 Dental Assistant / Front Office 11.28.21 Registered Nurse (RN) 11.28.21Hospital & Health Care Finance Director 11.18.21 Fiscal Specialist I 11.18.21 Van Driver 11.15.21Automotive, Transportation and Material Moving Finance Director 11.10.21Marketing, Advertising and Business Dev., Accounting Finance Director 11.10.21Marketing, Advertising and Business Dev., Accounting Office Specialist II 11.10.21Accounting Highway Maintenance Worker 11.08.21 Library and Archives Paraprofessional II 11.07.21Education, Training and Library Featured Businesses   Find a local business I'm looking for… Sections Local Sports Obituaries Opinion Inland360 Life Business Online Features Services About Us Contact Us Reader rules of conduct Advertise With Us Subscribe Site Forms Filehub Tearsheets Contact Information dnews.com 220 E. Fifth St., Suite 314 Moscow, ID 83843 Phone: 208-882-5561 Email: editor@dnews.com © Copyright 2021 Moscow-Pullman Daily News , 220 E. Fifth St., Suite 314 Moscow, ID | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 