  The Columbian logo Clark County Sports Business Life Opinion Obituaries Homes Jobs More From dust to dust — to compost in Clark CountySubscriber ExclusiveTrending Remember Land only site in world restoring wildlife habitat with mulch commingled with human remains By Will Campbell, Columbian Innovation Editor Published: December 5, 2021, 6:05am Share:      5 PhotosRemember Land Executive Director Elliot Rasenick stands in front of a mound of NOR, or natural organic reduction, from Kent-based human composting funeral home Recompose. Remember Land Executive Director Elliot Rasenick stands in front of a mound of NOR, or natural organic reduction, from Kent-based human composting funeral home Recompose. (Taylor Balkom/The Columbian) Photo Gallery Remember Land Executive Director Elliot Rasenick. Remember Land Executive Director Elliot Rasenick. (Taylor Balkom/The Columbian) Photo EAST OF BATTLE GROUND — Elliot Rasenick was silent for a long moment, the stillness broken only by the sound of a crow’s caw, flowing streams, and the wind rust ... This Article is Premium Content This article requires an active digital subscription to read. Please log in or subscribe to continue. Share:      Receive latest stories and local news in your email: Email address... By signing up you are agreeing to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. mugshot photo of Will Campbell Will Campbell Columbian Innovation Editor Twitter @wtcampbell phone icon (360) 735-4507 email icon will.campbell@columbian.com Featured Realtor Mike Lamb, Windermere Stellar MIKE LAMB (360) 694-4050 Windermere Stellar $895,000 RIDGEFIELD, WA Listing courtesy of Opal Macpherson $347,000 VANCOUVER, WA Listing courtesy of Deanna Bryson Columbian Homes logo RELATED STORIES In Washington schools, some jobs are harder to fill than others Latest NewsDecember 6, 2021 Bono plumbs the mysteries of music in his work, his life and in ‘Sing 2’ EntertainmentDecember 6, 2021 Power of Pivot: Students design device to help people move from cars to wheelchairs Clark County NewsDecember 6, 2021 NEWS Clark County Sports Business Life Opinion Courts & Crime Obituaries Death Notices Vital Statistics Special Projects HELP Contact Us COVID-19 Response Retail Locations Delivery Issues Advertising Send us a News Tip or Photo Send a Letter to the Editor Report a Website Bug Delivery Opportunities Archives MORE Submit an Event Jobs Real Estate Blogs Newsletters Classifieds ePaper Merch Shop Community Partnerships Web Design & SEO The Columbian logo Search... Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin Pinterest Copyright © 2021 The Columbian. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Privacy PolicyTerms of ServiceCommunity GuidelinesColumbian Publishing Co.Commercial Printing ServicesCareers notification icon  