Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on helenair.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Helena Independent Record
EDITOR'S PICK TOPICAL ALERT TOP STORY
Lee Enterprises sues PSC to turn over public documents
Seaborn Larson 1 hr ago  2
Legal icon law gavel court judge
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Seaborn Larson
Lee Enterprises last week sued the Montana Public Service Commission alleging the agency set excessive costs and hurdles for public records requests that violated the state's open records laws.

The petition, filed Dec. 3 in Lewis and Clark County District Court, raises three instances in which Lee Enterprises' reporters sought PSC records and were met with up-front costs, in one case $31,000, and legal reviews before the documents would be disclosed.

A spokesperson for the PSC said the agency had not yet been served with the filing and had no comment Monday.

Lee Enterprises is the parent company of several  Montana newspapers, including the Helena Independent Record, Billings Gazette, Missoulian, Montana Standard (Butte) and Ravalli Republic in Hamilton.

The lawsuit challenges the costs the PSC has assigned to fulfilling the records requests and argues the costs of "legal review" of documents prior to their disclosure is not authorized in the Montana Open Records Act. Such costs, the filing states, has a chilling effect on the public right to examine government documents enshrined in the constitution. 

People are also reading…
MT officials herald judge's order halting mandate for health care workers
Wildfire destroys 24 houses in central Montana town
Lewis and Clark County Sheriff's Office seeking missing teen
Unvaccinated co-workers will be reported
The first records request followed a fiscal compliance audit earlier this year that found lax spending practices and falsified documents generated to justify expenses at the agency. On June 7, a Lee reporter requested access to records related to travel invoices, expense reports and reimbursements for the commission and staff, along with additional records related to the PSC's attempt to pay down a debt to the state's information technology services division with a government computer as payment. 

On Sept. 3, the PSC's chief counsel notified the reporter a search for relevant records had turned up nearly 25,000 documents and legal staff would need $31,000 to conduct the legal review before the documents were disclosed.

On Oct. 3, another Lee reporter requested all text messages, emails and phone records made by Public Service Commissioner Jennifer Fielder using government resources concerning a patient at St. Peter's Health in Helena. A legislative probe into an incident at St. Peter's found Attorney General Austin Knudsen, Deputy AG Kris Hansen and Fielder had each spoken with hospital employees at various levels after a COVID-19 patient's family complained the hospital would not provide ivermectin or hydroxycholoroquine, two drugs not approved by the FDA for treatment. Fielder, according to the probe, had left a voicemail with the hospital stating the patient had connections with the state Senate and a lawsuit could ensue if "this doesn't turn out well."

In response to the request, the PSC's attorney told Lee he was "working on placing a hold notice" on the requested documents, and later requested $240 in order to effectuate the "hold notice." Lee paid the fee, and weeks later the PSC notified Lee that it would require an advanced payment of $870 to cover the costs of reviewing the documents before any disclosure. 

And on Oct. 26, one of the PSC commissioners said during a meeting he had received a text message from the CEO of NorthWestern Energy, one of the utilities regulated by the agency. At the time of the text, the PSC was discussing NorthWestern Energy taxes; a Lee reporter requested access to all communications between the commissioners concerning Northwestern Energy from Oct. 25 through Oct. 27. 

The petition seeks a judge's order directing the PSC to release the requested documents and finding that legal review by a government body is not a proper cost that can be used as a pre-condition to disclose public documents under the state's open records laws.

Montana State News Bureau
3
1
Tags
State-government Montana Public Service Commission Lee Enterprises Montana Open Records Laws Austin Knudsen Kris Hansen Jennifer Fielder Montana Attorney General Northwestern Energy Psc State Law Economics Legislation Cost Lawsuit Document Costs
Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox!
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Seaborn Larson
Seaborn Larson
State Reporter

Capitol bureau reporter Seaborn Larson covers justice-related areas of state government and organizations that wield power.

Author twitter Author email
Related to this story
FWP proposes major changes to some limited elk permits
FWP proposes major changes to some limited elk permits
The districts that are part of this proposal are all 200% or above population objectives and largely concentrated on private land.

'You can’t kill little towns like this': Denton starts long recovery after wildfire
'You can’t kill little towns like this': Denton starts long recovery after wildfire
 An unseasonable wildfire destroyed 25 homes, Denton’s landmark grain elevators and the train trestle and highway bridge into town.

Pandemic relief to help health care workers with child care
Pandemic relief to help health care workers with child care
Funds will be available for parents and guardians who work in health care, behavioral health, disability services, and long-term care settings, including assisted living and home health.

Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Helena Independent Record
  
Sites & Partners
Special Sections
20 Under 40
Online Features
Services
e-Edition
Email Delivery
Subscribe to Print or Digital
Manage Active Subscription
Contact Us
Advertise
Classifieds
Work here
Become a Carrier
© Copyright 2021 Independent Record, 2222 Washington St. Helena,MT | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
