
Steller performance of ‘Beauty and the Beast’
By 
Chris Mcconnell Outlook Staff Writer
Wednesday, November 24, 2021
The cast of the Laurel High School musical sign off after their flawless opening night performance of “Beauty and the Beast” on Nov. 18. The cast had two public performances as well as shows for the elementary schools. Outlook photos by Chris McConnell
The cast of the Laurel High School musical sign off after their flawless opening night performance of “Beauty and the Beast” on Nov. 18. The cast had two public performances as well as shows for the elementary schools. Outlook photos by Chris McConnell
The “Silly Girls” swooned over Gaston for much of the LHS performance of “Beauty and the Beast” last week. Outlook photos by Chris McConnell
The “Silly Girls” swooned over Gaston for much of the LHS performance of “Beauty and the Beast” last week. Outlook photos by Chris McConnell
Pason Gage played Belle’s father Maurice, an inventor who is considered to be insane by the villagers in “Beauty and the Beast.”
Pason Gage played Belle’s father Maurice, an inventor who is considered to be insane by the villagers in “Beauty and the Beast.”
Rocky Guerrero played the boisterous Gaston during the high school musical.
Rocky Guerrero played the boisterous Gaston during the high school musical.
Belle (Lauren Johannsen) consoles the Beast (Aaron Fairlee) during the LHS performance of “Beauty and the Beast” last week.
Belle (Lauren Johannsen) consoles the Beast (Aaron Fairlee) during the LHS performance of “Beauty and the Beast” last week.
The Laurel High School musical “Beauty and the Beast” went off without a hitch last week. The 34 actors and vocalists had two public performances and additional shows for district elementary students.

Artistic Director and Rhonda Burghardt and Technical Director Denise Hammer want to show their appreciation for every who helped make this year’s musical happen. The following is from the playbill for “Beauty and the Beast:”

It takes a Great team to produce a Great show and we are very GRATEFUL for all those who contributed to the success of our production.

Suzanne Purtee: It is a joy to have this accomplished pianist as our accompanist! Not only is she very talented, but she is so NICE and easy to work with!

Linda Swensen: Creativity and skill abound when Linda is around! She can work wonders with a needle and fabric and is an incredible resource. While she did her usual magic with costumes, this year we also had costume help from Kimbree Garcia and the Campbell County High School; Gillette, Wyoming.

Michael Hammer: Year after year Mike faithfully sets up the backdrop, builds and repairs set pieces and then tears it all down when the show is done. His construction skills are awesome and greatly appreciated!

Sherry Sauskojus: Drawing and painting backdrops, making a library, creating pillars…. Sherry has contributed SO much to the set! We are indebted to her for her talent and the time she invested in our production. Others who helped create our amazing set were: Laura Yeager, Cindy Sampson, Michelle Mize, Maggie Swensen and many of the cast members.

Lights and Sound are headed up by the very knowledgeable and helpful Mr. Elliot Cross. He is aided by his team in the booth: Sam Norman, Aiden Felker and Caleb Trostle. This is an invaluable job so thanks, guys, for makin gsure we can be seen and heard!

Matt Kimmet’s class worked on the program and t–shirt designs. The winning contributions were made by Savannah Haug, Cam McAllister and Mason Mickelson.

Laurel Public Library, Local Businesses who advertised, the Laurel Outlook and Brianna’s Bakes.

LHS administration and teachers, technology, maintenance and housekeeping staff. We know our production creates mess and misses (of classes) so thanks for your patience and support. We believe theatre offers students an enriching opportunity they wouldn’t get elsewhere so thanks for making this possible.

And FINALLY: a huge THANK YOU to all the FAMILIES of the cast and crew. We know you have to deal with lots of crazy schedules and absent family members. We truly could not do this without your support!

The cast for the 2021 production of Laurel High School’s performance of “Beauty and the Beast” were as follows.

Belle: Lauren Johannsen

Beast:Aaron Fairlee

LeFou: Rand Carlson

Cogsworth: Adam Sutton Chip: Alex Hughes

Chip: Alex Hughes

Maurice: Pason Gage

Gaston: Rocky Guerrero

Lumiere: Thomas Amestoy

Mrs. Potts: Cassie Sampson

Babette: Carly Cook

Madame De la Bouche: Jocelyn Wolcott

Beggar Woman/Enchantress: Pashence Aaby

Bookseller/Monsieru D’Arque: Aidan Peers

Narrators: Abigail Molm, Katie LeBrun, Kersley Frasier, Liam Bickel

Silly Girls: Bethany Gunn, Elizabeth Rupp, Alyssa Arneson, Lauren Taylor, Makayla Amestoy, Madie Hill, Alyssa Robertus, Madi Nevin, Lyndsay Koch.

Villagers/Servants: Jackie Contreraz, Bradlea Steppe, Elsie Contreraz, Alexa Caswell, Alora Torno, Landen Johannsen, Ali Krause, Lilyaunna Yager and Silly Girls.

Category:NewsSchool

https://www.willyweather.com/mt/yellowstone-county/laurel.html

FACEBOOK
