Skip to main content
×

You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.

Already a subscriber?
Log in or Activate your account.
Winter Sale!
$4.99 for 3 months
No thanks, return to homepage.

site-logo
TOPICAL ALERT TOP STORY
Voters sue for redrawn PSC districts, saying current districts are unconstitutional
Tom Lutey 8 min ago 
Montana Public Service Commission District Map
It’s been 20 years since Montana’s Public Service Commission districts have been adjusted. Now voters in the rapidly growing west are suing for change before the 2022 election.

Tom Lutey
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Tom Lutey
It’s been 20 years since Montana’s Public Service Commission districts have been adjusted. Now voters in the rapidly growing western part of the state are suing for changes before the 2022 election.

Former Montana Secretary of State Bob Brown of Flathead County and Hailey Sinoff of Gallatin County asked a federal court Monday for new PSC districts, arguing that the current ones are “unconstitutionally malapportioned.”

The 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution requires that political districts balance under the “one-person, one-vote rule” that allows a deviation of no more than 10%.

It’s the PSC that decides what customers of monopoly utilities NorthWestern Energy and Montana Dakota Utilities pay for electricity and natural gas. It also regulates water, garbage and even taxi service in areas where take-it or leave-it conditions mean customers are captive to a single provider.

The plaintiffs are asking a three-judge panel to do the redistricting that Montana’s Legislature has repeatedly tried but failed to do. Montana law puts the job of getting PSC districts apportioned on the Montana Legislature, but that last time lawmakers did so was in 2003. Since then, the districts have become extremely lopsided as Eastern Montana’s population fades, and the West keeps booming.

“Protecting the one-person, one-vote rule in Montana is essential. As Secretary of State, I fought to ensure that every Montanan had fair and equal access to the ballot box,” Brown said in a press release Monday. “As the Public Service Commission districts stand today, Montanans are not equally represented. Fortunately, this issue has a simple solution: redistrict the Public Service Commission before the 2022 election.”

Brown, who left office in 2004, was the last secretary of state to put reapportioned PSC districts on the ballot.

There are 53,132 more people in the southwestern district anchored by Bozeman and Butte, than in the Hi-Line district anchored by Great Falls and Sidney, which has the smallest population of the five districts. Flathead and Lewis and Clark counties anchor a district that has 45,750 more people than the Hi-Line district.

If each if the state’s five PSC districts contained 216,845 people, they would balance. The closest district to hitting that number is the southeastern Montana district, which stretches from Billings to Baker, and is just 313 people shy of the ideal. The second closest district in the northwest, anchored by Missoula and running along the Idaho border from the Bitterroot to the Yaak. The northwest would need an additional 7,882 people to balance.

Montana’s population has changed significantly since the PSC districts were last adjusted in 2003. The state had 1,084,225 people in the 2020 Census, up 182,030 from 20 years earlier. That growth was enough to qualify Montana for a second seat in the U.S. House, making it the first state to regain a congressional seat after being demoted to at large status.

The plaintiffs are asking the federal court to send the task of redistricting the PSC to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals where a three-judge court would be formed to do the redistricting that Montana’s Legislature hasn’t done. That also means stopping Montana Secretary of State Christi Jacobson from allowing PSC races to appear on the ballot before districts are redrawn.

There isn’t much time before Montana’s 2022 election cycle begins. Candidates begin filing for office Jan. 13, with a filing deadline of March 14. The state’s primary election is June 7.

There are two PSC districts on the election ballot in 2022. The Hi-Line district, known as PSC District 1, is on ballot. Current Commissioner Randy Pinocci is seeking a second term. The district anchored by Kalispell and Helena, known as District 5, is also on the ballot and without incumbent. Former Republican state Rep. Derek Skees and Helena Democrat Kevin Hamm are candidates in District 5.

There have been several attempts in the Montana Legislature to address the selection of public service commissioners. Bills tackling the issue ranged from requiring the districts be redrawn, to making commission positions political appointments with professional requirements. Commissioners have come under increased political scrutiny following several scandals ranging from campaign ethics violations, large pay raises to staff, excessive travel expenses, email spying, and false reports to law enforcement, to name a few.

The PSC is a quasi-judicial body with no required experience to for election. The job pays $112,444 a year. Voters rarely deny incumbent commissioners a second, and final, four-year term.

Tags
State-and-regional Montana Public Service Commission Election 2022 Bob Brown Hailey Sinoff Montana Politics
Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox!
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Tom Lutey
Tom Lutey
Agriculture and Politics Reporter

Politics and agriculture reporter for The Billings Gazette.

Author facebook Author twitter Author email
Related to this story
 +5Home heating prices could skyrocket this winter says Montana PSC
STATE & REGIONAL
Home heating prices could skyrocket this winter says Montana PSC
Nov 16, 2021
Home heating costs for Montanans are expected to increase this winter, the state’s utility regulator announced Tuesday.

 +4Fish stranded after Hebgen Lake Dam glitch cuts off water to Madison River
STATE & REGIONAL
Fish stranded after Hebgen Lake Dam glitch cuts off water to Madison River
Nov 30, 2021
A dramatic plunge in the upper Madison River due to a problem at the Hebgen Lake Dam has stranded some fish and bodes ill for brown trout eggs resting in now exposed gravel.

 +5DEQ sued over Laurel gas plant permit
STATE & REGIONAL
DEQ sued over Laurel gas plant permit
Oct 22, 2021
Montana’s Department of Environmental quality is being sued for allegedly ignoring the state’s Constitution when permitting a gas-fired power …

 +3Bullying, spying and harassment revealed in Montana PSC documents
406 POLITICS
Bullying, spying and harassment revealed in Montana PSC documents
Sep 17, 2020
Montana Public Service Commission documents showing a pattern of bullying, harassment, and spying at the agency have been released by a distri…

 +2Koopman files $2.5 million damage claim against PSC
406 POLITICS
Koopman files $2.5 million damage claim against PSC
Dec 30, 2020
A $2.5 million damage claim has been filed against members of the Montana Public Service Commission, and staff members, by exiting Commissioner Roger Koopman, the target of an email spying scheme and phony police investigation.

 +2Auditors find falsified documents, policies ignored, in Montana PSC review
406 POLITICS
Auditors find falsified documents, policies ignored, in Montana PSC review
May 27, 2021
Citing falsified documentation and lax spending practices at the Montana Public Service Commission, state legislative auditors say there isn’t…

site-logo
   
Sites & Partners
Sell It MT
I Love A Deal
Thrifty Nickel
Montana Wheels For You
Montana Land Magazine
Newspaper special sections
Online Features
Billings Gazette Store
Services
Subscribe
Advertise
e-Edition
Contact Us
Work here
Become a Carrier
© Copyright 2021 Billings Gazette, 401 N Broadway Billings, MT | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

