
Frontier Guns and Ammo has new owner
DECEMBER 1, 2021 BY EDITOR 1 COMMENT


Dustin and Shannon Harris with their kids, Olivia and Ethan. Photo by Nathan Boddy.
by Nathan Boddy

Dustin Harris, the new owner of Frontier Guns and Ammo at 1704 North 1st in Hamilton, spent his youth running and learning about guns. The two came hand-in-hand while working at his parent’s rifle range in Ham Lake, Minnesota. It was an ongoing effort for he and his siblings.

“We would do the 100 yard dash every 20 minutes, changing targets,” says Harris. “Everyone would get up off the line and we would change the 25 yard, then the 50 and 100. All four of us would run out there, change all the targets and run back.” Amidst all that exercise, Harris gained an understanding about firearms that he brought with him to Montana in 2009. Although his first intention was to follow the trajectory of his eduction in Criminology into law enforcement, Harris says that plans quickly changed when he reached the Bitterroot Valley and met up with Chad Ballman, who had interest in opening a gun store. Ballman knew of Harris’s background in Minnesota, and the two started a partnership to open Frontier Guns and Ammo at its first location in a log home near Sheafman Corner.


“I changed my mind (about law enforcement), and I’m glad that I did. I like making my own hours,” says Harris. But he adds that, “The shift in love for law enforcement has changed a little bit. They are not viewed the same way they used to be viewed.”

Law enforcement may have missed out on a top-notched officer, but private business in Ravalli County has benefitted. Harris stayed with Frontier Guns and Ammo through years of growth and three different locations until making the decision to purchase the business for himself more than a year ago. The process required a great deal of patience, but was recently finalized, officially making he and his wife, Shannon, new business owners in Hamilton. The change is an exciting one for them, especially since they are raising two children and hope that the shop provides for their kids, Olivia and Ethan, an example of how persistence can pay off.

“Don’t give up on your dreams!”  says Shannon. “It’s been a long year but we didn’t give up!” And of course, the process of taking over the business during the Covid-19 pandemic has not been easy for Dustin and Shannon. The Covid pandemic has caused multiple disruptions for the new business owners. Says Dustin, “Things have gotten a lot harder to get. All our manufacturing has really slowed down. We don’t get much from China, but the US workforce has really slowed.” He adds that, “demand has not slowed. Demand is at an all time high.”

One particular point that has shown the difficulty of the supply chain, especially for hunters in western Montana, has been the scarcity of ammunition in the recent past. Harris says that all the main suppliers of ammunition have been impacted. “We’ve got four ammunition manufacturers in the valley, so that has helped.” He adds that he tries to keep his shelves stocked with ammunition from all of the local manufacturers, but that, “they’ve been hit just as hard as far as getting primers, powders, casings… they’re having a hard time as well.”

Dustin and Shannon, along with their (at present) two employees, Sherri Harris and Carl Beebe, want the people of the Bitterroot to know that they are ready for business. “I love the Bitterroot Valley,” says Dustin, “and the people who share a love of hunting and shooting sports.  I want to support that.” He expresses hope that an expansion will be in their future, moving into archery and an expanded show floor, but for now would be happy for people to know that Frontier Guns and Ammo is ready to help Santa stuff a few stockings.

