	
Governor supports plans for Oklahoma prison rodeo’s return
Oklahoma’s governor said he wants to bring back what was onc…

ALERT FEATURED TOPICAL
Federal appeals court denies Oklahoma death row inmate's stay request
By Adrian O'Hanlon III | CNHI Oklahoma 2 min ago 
Stouffer
Bigler Stouffer II


    
The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday denied Oklahoma death row inmate Bigler Stouffer II an emergency motion for a stay of execution.

Stouffer, 79, who was convicted of the 1985 fatal shooting of Oklahoma teacher Linda Reaves, is scheduled to die by lethal injection at 10 a.m. Thursday at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester.

Defense attorneys have challenged the effectiveness of midazolam — the first of Oklahoma’s three-drug cocktail used in lethal injections.

Appellate judges wrote Stouffer didn't address key factors in his appeal.

"Mr. Stouffer has failed to establish a threat that he will be irreparably harmed by a violation of his Eighth Amendment rights if he is executed using Oklahoma's three-drug protocol, including midazolam," judges wrote.

Stouffer has said he's innocent in the attack that left Reaves dead and her boyfriend Doug Ivens seriously wounded. Stouffer's first conviction was overturned before he was convicted and sentenced to death in 2003..

Prosecutors said Stouffer went to Ivens' home to borrow his gun before he fatally shot Reaves and wounded Ivens. They said Stouffer was dating Ivens' ex-wife and that he was trying to get access to Ivens’ $2 million life insurance policy.

Stouffer said at his parole board hearing that Reaves was dead when he arrived and Ivens was shot as they struggled over the gun.

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt denied clemency to Stouffer on Friday, despite a 3-2 recommendation from the state’s Pardon and Parole Board to commute his sentence to life in prison without parole because of concerns some board members had following problems with recent executions.

John O'Connor, the state's attorney general, said he supports Stitt's decision to deny clemency.

“Stouffer’s brutal and senseless crime took the life of Linda Reaves and shattered the lives of Doug Ivens and their families," O'Connor said in a statement. “Now, after 36 years, justice will finally be served."

Don Heath, chair of the Oklahoma Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, applauded the parole board's recommendation and called on the governor to stay executions until a federal judge decides whether Oklahoma's execution protocol constitutes cruel and unusual punishment.

Some parole board members questioned whether Oklahoma could conduct humane executions following its lethal injection of John Grant — who vomited and convulsed several times while being put to death in October.

Grant, convicted of killing a prison cafeteria worker, became Oklahoma’s first execution since its hiatus in 2015 after scrutiny stemming from a series of problematic lethal injections.

Clayton Lockett, convicted in 2000 of murder and several other charges, writhed in agony for about 43 minutes on a gurney before his 2014 lethal injection. A state investigation later found the IV in Lockett’s groin came loose and prolonged his death.

The state used potassium acetate instead of potassium chloride — which wasn't approved in protocols at that time — in its 2015 execution of Charles Warner, who was convicted in the rape and murder of an infant..

Oklahoma’s then-general counsel, Steve Mullins, told prison officials to proceed using the same mixture used in Warner’s execution for the lethal injection of death row inmate Richard Glossip — but then-Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin intervened by issuing a stay.

The state uses midazolam to first render the inmate unconscious, then vecuronium bromide as a muscle relaxant, and finally potassium chloride to stop the heart.

Oklahoma resumed lethal injections in October using the same three-drug combination used in Lockett’s 2014 execution.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Contact Adrian O'Hanlon III at aohanlon@mcalesternews.com
