Login
Christmas Contest
News
Puzzles & Comics
Sports
Opinion
Community
Classifieds
E-Paper
App
Celebrations
Obituaries
Contact Us
Subscribe
Shop
Public Notices
Carrier Application
COVID-19 News
Toggle navigation

Free access to breaking news is sponsored by the Stillwater News Press
Next Up
NEXT UP
UPDATED: Coaches talk about Fiesta Bowl matchup	
UPDATED: Coaches talk about Fiesta Bowl matchup
Oklahoma State football will play Notre Dame for the first t…

FEATURED BREAKING EDITOR'S PICK TOPICAL
Gundy: OSU in the process of extending contract with Knowles
By Jason Elmquist/Stillwater News Press 20 hrs ago 
Jim Knowles
By Jason Elmquist/Stillwater News Press

    
With the Oklahoma State administration locking up head football coach Mike Gundy for a contract extension mid-season, it appears they are trying to do the same with his top assistant coach.

According to Gundy during his press conference Sunday, athletic director Chad Weiberg and OSU President Dr. Kayse Shrum have been in contract talks with defensive coordinator Jim Knowles for weeks.

“I can tell you our president and athletic director would love to keep Coach Knowles in Stillwater,” Gundy said. “He and I have developed a great working relationship, and I think he’s a very smart football coach and I really think he likes Stillwater.

“So we’re in the process today, and in really some over the last couple of weeks, in trying to work out a deal to keep him here. I think it’s best for Oklahoma State football, and I think Coach Knowles wants to be here.”

Prior to the Big 12 Conference championship game – in which the Cowboy defense held Baylor to 21 points, keeping every opponent this season to few than 24 points – Gundy had said he was “fairly certain” Knowles would be back in Stillwater.

A lot of that had to do with the ongoing coaching carousel in college football, which has even included Oklahoma State’s Bedlam rival Oklahoma as well as OSU’s bowl opponent Notre Dame.

On Sunday, Knowles’ players were pushing to lock up the finalist for the Broyles Award – given to the country’s top college assistant football coach.

Defensive end Brock Martin didn’t hold anything back in terms of trying to get his coordinator a contract extension.

“Give Knowles his blank check, close your eyes and hope he doesn’t take as much as he deserves,” Martin tweeted out.

Many of his defensive teammates were in complete agreement with the veteran lineman from Oologah.

Several simply quote-tweeted with a response of “This!” or liked the tweet in general.

Collin Oliver, who was named the Big 12 Conference Freshman Defensive Player of the Year, also left it to one word when quote-tweeting Martin: “Pleeeaaassseee.”

“I think it’s awesome,” Gundy said when asked about players pushing for Knowles to get paid. “We want our players to trust the coaches, and obviously they trust Coach Knowles.”

However, Gundy also understands the money involved in college football.

And while he is hopeful Knowles and the administration can reach an agreement in terms of his monetary value, there is also the reality that other athletic departments with bigger budgets could actually afford to throw more money toward an elite defensive coordinator – or when looking for a potential new head coach. The 56-year-old coordinator has some experience running a program as a head coach of Cornell in the late 2000s.

“It’s not quite as easy as just giving somebody a blank check,” Gundy said Sunday. “There’s a lot of details involved in that. But we’re working hard to keep him in place.”


Tags
Mike Gundy Jim Knowles Chad Weiberg Sport American Football Football Stillwater Tweet Kayse Shrum Martin Player
TRENDING VIDEO

Jason Elmquist
Jason Elmquist
Sports Editor Oklahoma State University athletics

Author facebook Author twitter Author email
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU


coupons
coupons
ADVERTISERS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS
NewsPress SpecialsSubscribe to the NewsPress today! Click here.Find a business - blinc is your area business linc
PHOTOS

To view or purchase photos, visit stwnewspress.smugmug.com
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
City Council previews 6th Avenue Corridor Study
Steve Irby and Kicker make major donation to develop Block 34
UPDATED: Stillwater student arrested after police alleged they stole a school bus
Payne County Sheriff requests audit of his department's purchase orders
UPDATED: Coaches talk about Fiesta Bowl matchup
Former SHS standout Julia Cottrill 'coming home' to Oklahoma State
Christmas Parade lights up downtown Stillwater tonight
Sheriff's deputy welcomed home after long battle with COVID-19
Kicker and City of Stillwater partner to transform Block 34
Stillwater Parade of Lights award winners
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
stwnewspress.com
211 W. Ninth St.
Stillwater, OK 74074
Phone: 405-372-5000
Email: publisher@stwnewspress.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Photos
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 stwnewspress.com, 211 W. Ninth St. Stillwater, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
