

NORMAN — Even throughout a decade as Clemson’s defensive coordinator, Brent Venables never cut his connection with OU.

“You feel like it’s part of your fiber,” Venables said Monday as he was introduced as the Sooners’ head football coach. “It’s not just a job. You pour your life into it.”

Returning to Norman felt right for Venables, who was Sooners co-defensive coordinator or defensive coordinator from 1999-2011.


Now that the introductions are wrapping up, Venables said one of his first and biggest tasks is convincing the current players to remain.

At the top of that list is quarterback Caleb Williams.

Williams’ backup, Spencer Rattler, has already entered the NCAA transfer portal and the Sooners don’t have a quarterback committed in the 2022 class.

As Venables made his way into the Everest Training Center for his introductory event, Venables was followed by the Sooners’ current players.

More:What you need to know about OU football's coaching change from Lincoln Riley to Brent Venables

Former Clemson defensive coordinator being introduced Monday as Oklahoma head coach.
Among that group was Williams.

Venables said he was “working aggressively” to put a staff together, saying he had strong options among the remaining staff.

Several of those coaches — running backs coach DeMarco Murray, tight ends/H-backs coach Joe Jon Finley and defensive line coach Calvin Thibodeaux and inside linebackers coach Brian Odom — played for the Sooners during Venables’ previous stint in Norman. Inside receivers coach Cale Gundy was apart of the staff with Venables when Bob Stoops was hired in 1999.

The only coaches remaining on staff that haven’t either played or coached during Venables’ time with the Sooners are offensive line coach Bill Bedenbaugh and defensive ends/outside linebackers coach Jamar Cain.

Venables said he planned to hire a defensive coordinator.

Terms of Venables' contract have not been announced.

After his introductory press conference Monday afternoon, Venables planned to head out on the road recruiting, aiming to solidify the commits OU has currently and bolster a recruiting class that took some hits when Lincoln Riley departed for USC eight days earlier.

But before that, Venables took time to soak it in, re-introducing himself to plenty of people he knew during his previous tenure at OU and experiencing things he’d missed during his time in South Carolina.

That included a late-night run to Whataburger after landing Sunday night at Norman’s Max Westheimer Airport.

“You can’t fabricate family,” Venables said. “It has felt so easy on so many levels.”

Tramel:Brent Venables' time arrives, at ripe age of 50. The perfect time.


