
Bartlesville Festival of the Nativity returns with 3-day celebration
Susan Riley
Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise

A display from Bartlesville Festival of the Nativity.
The largest nativity event in all of Green Country is back with a three-day celebration intended to bring people from all backgrounds and faiths together in unity and peace. 

The Bartlesville Festival of the Nativity will feature more than 450 nativities from all over the world. It all takes place on Dec. 10-12 at Father Lynch Hall at St. John's Catholic Church.

"We are very excited to host this event again this year after having taken last year off due to the worldwide pandemic. We are in awe each year to see the new displays people share with us; it is amazing how different each one can be," said Amanda Vaclaw, a display coordinator.

"No matter what they are made of, they are all so intriguing. They represent different cultures and styles from simple children's renditions to elegant family heirlooms."

Lori Ahlert, the event's display coordinator, and her team of helpers are responsible for transforming Father Lynch Hall into a hallowed place for the displays to be admired.

“This festival helps me start off the Christmas season focusing on the Christ child. I love being a part of this event and consider it our gift to the community as we celebrate Christmas together,” Ahlert said.

Activities have been scaled back this year and will only include the nativity displays. As in years past, a nativity raffle will be held with tickets selling for $5 or 5 for $20.

"The money raised from sponsors and donors at this event will be given to provide Christmas presents to kids in need," said Clint Hansen, president of the PlayForBurk Foundation, the primary sponsor of the Festival.

The 2019 event brought in $17,500 which helped serve more than 300 local youth, Hansen said. The money was given to the principals and teachers of Madison, Central, Kane, Wilson, Jane Phillips and St. John schools to adopt children and their families so they could have gifts to open on Christmas. Money was also given to a few other community groups to help with their Christmas giving efforts for local youth.

"What marvelous blessings are coming from this joyous event. Stop by for a few minutes to begin your Christmas season remembering the reason we celebrate," Ahlert said.

Hansen started the PlayForBurk Foundation to carry on the legacy of his son, Burk Hansen, who passed away at 13 in a four-wheeler accident in 2015. 

The displays will be open for viewing from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Dec. 10-11; and from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Dec. 12 at Father Lynch Hall at St. John's Catholic Church, 715 S. Johnstone Ave. Refreshments will be served, and the event is free.

 Anyone who would like to share a nativity or multiple nativities is encouraged to do so by emailing bartlesvillenativity@gmail.com for information on how to participate. The nativities should be brought to Father Lynch Hall at the St. John School on Dec. 8.


