Subscribe
News
Puzzles & Comics
Sports
Classifieds
Community
Local Events
Opinion
Obituaries
Shop
Public Notices
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Amish Cook: Gloria's mom learns from wedding cupcake mishap	
Amish Cook: Gloria's mom learns from wedding cupcake mishap
Last week, I wrote about our daughter Anna Faith’s wedding. …

FEATURED
FIRST LADY VISIT: Jill Biden, with Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, tours Cherokee Nation's language immersion school, pledges to stand with tribe
By Grant D. Crawford gcrawford@tahlequahdailypress.com Dec 6, 2021 Updated 4 hrs ago 
1 of 3







    
First lady Dr. Jill Biden visited the Cherokee Nation’s Immersion School in Tahlequah Friday, when tribal officials learned what they're doing to revitalize the language.

The president’s wife, along with U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, arrived in a motorcade, with elected officials and the Cherokee National Youth Choir waiting to serenade her with festive traditional songs.

During her visit, Biden got to see first-hand what the tribe is doing to protect its language, as fewer than 2,000 fluent speakers remain. She learned about the investments the Cherokee Nation is making to create new speakers, and joined third-grade students for a portion of their classroom instruction: reading, writing and speaking the Cherokee language.

Biden’s visit was one of several to Native communities in the U.S. this year. She said so many tribes are dedicated to keeping their heritage and language alive, and that a spirit of a people cannot be lost when everyone pulls together to protect their culture.

“That’s exactly what you’re doing here – kindling a love for the Cherokee language and heritage in the next generation of your people,” she said. “In doing so, you are not only growing their minds and connecting them with their history, you are helping them to discover what makes all of you so unique.”

Principal Chief Chuck Hoskin Jr. said the tribe excels in health care, education, and business. But he said solving housing problems, constructing casinos, and expanding health care won’t restore the language.

“So we have to save it, because what matters to Cherokee people is that we hang on to our culture,” he said. “What matters is that we remain a distinct people.”

The tribe has already made major investments in its language programs. In 2019, the Cherokee Nation Durbin Feeling Act was signed by Hoskin to invest $16 million in to perpetuating the language. And the tribe has purchased property in Adair County to introduce a second immersion school. Hoskin said he felt encouraged that the first lady realizes it takes such immersive efforts to restore a Native tongue.

“She also recognizes that there’s a great deal of resources needed to do that,” he said. “The Cherokee Nation is putting forth those resources, but if the United States will do something to match what we’re doing, that will help. I think her seeing this first hand means she’ll take that message back to the White House. She has the ear of a very important person, as we know, and we need to keep that message going.”

In November, the first lady unveiled the White House Native Language Memorandum of Agreement to help promote collaboration on programming, resource development and policy related Native languages. The Biden administration is also reportedly dedicating $220 million to help tribal nations around the country protect and preserve their languages.

“This is so important to us,” Biden said. “We want you to know that President Biden and his administration are a partner to you. I hope you know that. We stand with the Cherokee Nation.”

Tags
Jill Biden Politics Ministries Deb Haaland Chuck Hoskin Jr. Cherokee Nation Durbin Feeling Act Tribe Immersion First Lady
TRENDING VIDEO
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
NEWSPAPER ADS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

OBITUARIES
Alfaro, Ramon
Wake service for Ramon Alfaro was, Tuesday, 12/7/2021 at McRay Funeral Home. Funeral service were Wednesday, 12/8/2021 at 1st & Georgia Church of Christ. Interment followed in the Memory Lane Cemetery Anadarko. Arrangements are with McRay Funeral Home.

Otto, Ben
Otto, Ben
DEPLOIS, Edward Nov 23, 1925 - Nov 26, 2021
DEPLOIS, Edward Nov 23, 1925 - Nov 26, 2021
SAXON, Sergeant Johnny May 6, 1946 - Nov 19, 2021
SAXON, Sergeant Johnny May 6, 1946 - Nov 19, 2021
Calaway, Norman
Calaway, Norman
MOST POPULAR
 Articles
OHP: 3 dead, 2 injured in head-on crash near Purcell
Chickasha Becomes Christmas Town for the Holidays
Bradley woman injured in wreck on Thanksgiving
Daren Cook J&W Grill Day is Tuesday, Dec. 7
City of Chickasha achieves Oklahoma Film Friendly Community certification
FOOTBALL: Tuttle, Clinton to battle for state title
Resurrection House, local fire departments approved for ARPA funds
Cory and Tamara Powell (107 Caulder Dr.)
Blanchard to celebrate Mardi Gras Style ‘Cajun Christmas”
Oklahoma authorities seize over 74 pounds of drugs from Chickasha area
Business MarqueeCall 224-2600 to find out how to get your message here.Get your message out to all our readers, print and online.
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
chickashanews.com
411 W. Chickasha Avenue
Chickasha, OK 73018
Phone: (405) 224-2600
Email: publisher@chickashanews.com
SERVICES
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Comics
Puzzles
Sports
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Photos
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 Chickasha Express Star, 411 W. Chickasha Avenue Chickasha, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
