Skip to main content
December 6, 2021

Cordell Beacon Home
facebook
instagram
OMICRON: A VARIANT OF CONCERN
By Charla Ingram Ads@cordellbeacon.com on Tuesday, November 30, 2021
Image
Photo by Metrocreative
Photo by Metrocreative
Body
COVID-19 is making headlines again with another variant of concern. This new variant, B.1.1.529, now named Omicron, was first reported to WHO (World Health Organization) from South Africa on November 24th. The Technical Advisory Group on SARS-CoV-2 Virus Evolution (TAG-VE) was convened two days later to assess the new mutation.

This new variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning to WHO. According to WHO, preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk in reinfection with this variant, as compared to other variants of concern.

Current PCR diagnostics continue to detect this new variant. Several labs have indicated that for one widely used PCR test, one of the three target genes is not detected (called S gene dropout or S gene target failure) and this test can therefore be used as a marker for the Omicron variant, pending sequencing confirmation. Using this approach, this variant has been detected at faster rates than previous surges in infection, suggesting that this variant may have a growth advantage.

It is still unclear whether infection with Omicron causes more severe disease, compared to infections with other variants such as Delta, or if it is more easily spread from person to person.

In regard to effectiveness of current treatments, WHO stated that Corticosteroids and IL6 Receptor Blockers will still be effective for managing patients with severe COVID-19. Other treatments will have to be assessed to see if they are still as effective given the changes to parts of the virus in the Omicron variant.

On November 26th, the same day that WHO identified the new variant, President Biden restricted travel to South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Most non-U.S. citizens who have previously been in these areas within fourteen days will not be allowed into the United States.

There are a few exceptions to the travel ban such as non-citizen nationals, spouses, parents, and a few other travelers that fall into specific categories as written in the President’s proclamation.

During a press conference on Monday, Biden explained his reasoning for the travel ban: “While we have the travel restrictions [that] can slow the speed of Omicron, it cannot prevent it.

But here’s what it does. It gives us time. It gives us time to take more actions, to move quicker, to make sure people understand you have to get your vaccine.”

Dr. Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor informed the president on Sunday that while it will take approximately two more weeks to have more definitive information regarding the Omicron variant’s transmissibility, severity, and other characteristics, he still believes that existing vaccines are likely to provide a degree of protection against severe cases of COVID-19.

Everyone ages five and older can get vaccinated against COVID-19. The vaccines are effective at helping protect against severe disease and death from the virus.

People are considered fully vaccinated two weeks after their second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna COVID-19 vaccination or two weeks after the single-dose Johnson & Johnson Janssen vaccination.

Moderately to severely immunocompromised people who received the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (Pfizer BioNTech-ages 12+ or Moderna-ages 18+) should plan to get an additional primary dose 28 days after receiving their 2nd shot.

Everyone that is 18 or older should get a booster shot of your choice at least two months after receiving the Johnson & Johnson Janssen vaccine or at least six months after receiving the Pfizer-BioN-Tech or Moderna vaccine. COVID-19 vaccinations are available to everyone at no cost, regardless of their immigration or health insurance status.

FacebookTwitter

Cordell Beacon e-Edition
Read Cordell Beacon

MOST RECENT POLL
POPULAR CONTENT
Today's:
Daily Brain Games
Mayor Fires Cordell EMS Director
Place a Classified
All time:
Contact Us
As COVID-19 Cases Spread, State Officials Release Few Local Details
Mayor Fires Cordell EMS Director
Last viewed:
Marla Ellis sells longtime accounting firm
Mayor Fires Cordell EMS Director
Houston, Do We Have a Problem?
  

The Cordell Beacon
P.O. Box 220 • 115 Main Street
Cordell, OK 73632
Phone: 580-832-3333
Fax: 580- 832-3335

© 2021 Cordell Beacon

"
