Login
News
Sports
Opinion
E-Paper
Puzzles & Comics
App
Norman Magazine
2021 Reader's Choice Winners
Discover Norman 2021
Celebrations
Community
Classifieds
Obituaries
Public Notices
Contact Us
Subscribe
Shop
Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Edmond Electric’s Luminance lights up beginning Nov. 20
Opening night of Luminance: An Enchanted Stroll, Edmond’s annual free, walk-thru…

Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence announces new board members
Submitted Nov 23, 2021 

    
OKLAHOMA CITY – The Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence, a statewide charitable organization that recognizes and encourages academic excellence in Oklahoma’s public schools, has announced the addition of 12 new members to its Board of Trustees.

Appointed to serve three-year terms are Casey Gilliam; Stephen G. Butler; Dr. Sonja J. Hughes; Sheryl Lovelady; Marion Paden; Jennifer Dilley; Mike Boynton; Annie Chang; Michael Epps; Melvin R. Gilliam Sr.; Dr. David Kendrick; and Jennifer Loren.

Casey Gilliam of Edmond is a former public school teacher-turned interior designer. After a 10-year period living in California, she and her husband now reside in Edmond, where their three children attend Edmond Public Schools. Gilliam serves on the Parent Teacher Organization board of her children’s school, and is looking forward to serving on the Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence Board along with her father, longtime board member Ken Ferguson.

Three of the new trustees — Butler, Chang and Kendrick — received Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence Academic All-State Awards when they were high school seniors.

One of the keys to the foundation’s success is the leadership of its 180 trustees. They are leaders in business, education and public service who represent every region of the state and help promote the foundation’s mission and its programs.

The Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence was founded in 1985 by then-U.S. Sen. David L. Boren to strengthen support for public education in Oklahoma. Through its flagship Academic Awards Program, the foundation has presented more than $5.1 million in cash awards to honor outstanding public school students and educators. Through its Oklahoma School Foundations Network, the foundation provides training and networking opportunities to more than 200 public education foundations across the state.

The foundation partners with the national Fund for Teachers and the Tulsa Community Foundation to provide grants for self-designed summer professional development opportunities for teachers in locations around the world. The foundation recently completed the pilot phase of its Teachers of English Learners Project, an online learning and networking platform to support classroom teachers in elementary schools with high enrollment of English Learners. The platform is now available free to teachers statewide through the State Department of Education.

Since 1987, the Oklahoma Foundation for Excellence and its partners have invested more than $12.6 million in teacher grants, scholarships and awards directly benefiting Oklahoma public school teachers and students.

 

Tags
Teacher Oklahoma Foundation Casey Gilliam School Education Institutes Award Public School
TRENDING VIDEO

NEWSPAPER ADS
THIS WEEK'S CIRCULARS

OBITUARIES
Lois Brandt
Lois Brandt
David Rennie
David Rennie
Charles Villyard
Charles Villyard
Enouen, Lawrence "Larry"
Lawrence "Larry" Joseph Enouen, 62 of Norman, passed away on November 28th. Graveside services will be held at Norman IOOF Cemetery on December 10th at 10:00 am. Arrangements are under the direction of Primrose Funeral Service.

McAdams, Michael
McAdams, Michael
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

CONTACT INFORMATION
normantranscript.com
215 E. Comanche St.
Norman, OK 73070
Phone: 405-321-1800
Email: editor@normantranscript.com
SERVICES
About Us
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Subscriber Services
Submission Forms
Rack Locations
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
SECTIONS
News
Sports
Photos
Community
Opinion
Obituaries
Comics
Puzzles
Video Gallery
Weather

© Copyright 2021 Norman Transcript, 215 E. Comanche St. Norman, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.