
The Journal Record
Home / General News / Economics, not just emotions, tied to abortion fight
Economics, not just emotions, tied to abortion fight
By: Janice Francis-Smith The Journal Record December 3, 2021 0


From left, Anna Artz and Alana Westfall stood in front of Planned Parenthood in Oklahoma City on Thursday, holding signs in support of abortion access. (Photo by Janice Francis-Smith)

Two transplants to Oklahoma, skilled workers in some of Oklahoma’s key industries, stood outside the Planned Parenthood clinic in Oklahoma City last week. They also illustrated the economic stakes tied to the emotional abortion debate sweeping the nation.

Recognizing the likelihood that abortion will be all but outlawed in Oklahoma if the U.S. Supreme Court were to overturn Roe v. Wade, the two young women contemplated leaving the state to build their lives elsewhere.

“Why wouldn’t I just go to New Mexico?” said Alana Westfall, who is training to become a nurse practitioner. “Oklahoma refuses to give nurse practitioners the right to practice independently, and then on top of it they’re going to make it even worse for abortion access, which is access to healthcare. It’s like, why on earth would someone developing a career want to stay here, especially when my husband has such a volatile career in oil and gas? They have oil and gas in New Mexico, too.”

“I’m having my second girl,” Westfall added. “Why on earth would I want to keep her in an environment, considering God knows how long this could go on, in a culture that thinks abortion care is not healthcare?”

The U.S. Air Force stationed Anna Artz in Oklahoma and, “as soon as I get out of the Air Force, I’m moving somewhere where there’s rights,” she said.

Oklahoma officials have cited their religious beliefs in their efforts to reduce or eliminate abortions in the state. However, those efforts have a considerable impact on the local economy, court filings in the Mississippi case currently before the U.S. Supreme Court, Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, indicate.

Filings in the case presented arguments as to whether or not there exists a “causal link between the availability of abortion and the capacity of women to act in society,” and if abortion access has affected “the ability of women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the nation.”

The Supreme Court justices’ questions during Wednesday’s hearing on the case would seem to indicate that the matter may once again be left up to individual states to decide. Oklahoma is one of a dozen states with laws already on the books that would outlaw abortion in the event that Roe v. Wade is overturned. Such a bill was one of nine pieces of pro-life legislation passed during the 2021 session and signed into law by Gov. Kevin Stitt.

“I promised Oklahomans I would sign every piece of pro-life legislation that came across my desk and I am proud to keep that promise,” Stitt said at a ceremonial signing event. “As a father of six, it’s an honor to be the most pro-life governor in the country, and I will always step up to protect the lives of unborn children.”

Lawmakers who helped draft and advance the legislation highlighted their religious beliefs.

“We thank the Lord for the team of people that worked together to help make this happen, and the multitudes who have prayed for years about this. We also thank the Lord for answered prayer. To God be the glory!” said Rep. Jim Olsen, R-Roland, one of the authors of a bill that would define performance of an abortion as “unprofessional conduct” for a physician.

“All life is precious and a gift from God,” said Senate President Pro Tempore Greg Treat, R-Oklahoma City. “The pro-life measures we passed this year seek to ensure each life is protected at every single stage in Oklahoma.”

Oklahoma’s Supreme Court has blocked three of those laws, and a district court has temporarily blocked two more – including a measure that would ban abortions after six weeks.

Cars honked their support as they passed the two women stationed outside of Planned Parenthood at 619 NW 23rd Street – just a minute down the road from the Oklahoma State Capitol – with signs in support of abortion access on Thursday, the day after the issue was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court.

“We’re here to show support for the community, to show them that there are people who will be there for them and make sure it’s a safe space for people to get care,” said Artz. Thursday is also the day several local church groups come to stand in front of the clinic, she said.

But this past Thursday, only two women stood in front of the clinic. Directly across the street was a van from Image Clear Ultrasound, offering free testing and ultrasound services.

“Keeping separation of church and state is not applicable to what they’re doing, because in their event it even says ‘you need to tell your legislators they need to do their God-given job and abolish abortion,’” Artz said. “So we’ll be there to counter-protest and let them know that women do deserve to have equal access to healthcare and open access to healthcare, for whatever they decide to do. It’s nobody’s business.”

Arguments before the Supreme Court on Wednesday addressed whether access to abortion significantly impacts the ability of women to participate fully in society and the economy.

The State of Mississippi argued there is not conclusive evidence to show that women benefit economically from increased access to abortion. On the other hand, a group of 154 economists and researched filed an amici curiae brief with the court, citing a number of studies that would indicate otherwise.

One study cited found that young women who utilized legal abortion to delay an unplanned start to motherhood by just one year realized an 11% increase in hourly wages later in their careers. Another study cited found that for young women who experienced an unintended pregnancy, access to abortion increased the probability they finished college by nearly 20 percentage points, and the probability that they entered a professional occupation by nearly 40 percentage points.

The studies showed access to abortion had a greater impact on Black women, which “aligns with historical narratives that, pre-legalization, white women were more often able to access clandestine abortions through trusted physicians or travel to repeal states,” the brief states.

“Abortion remains a critical component of women’s reproductive healthcare and decision making,” the brief shows. “Contrary to Mississippi’s assertion, for significant segments of the population, reliable and affordable contraception remains out of reach. And for many women, affordable childcare is as illusory as employment policies that accommodate working parent.”
