
“Light Up Lovelock” contest underway
Debra Reid, News4Nevada
Tuesday, November 30, 2021 1:00 AM

Comments (0)
Some residents got started on holiday decorations last week. To enter the “Light Up Lovelock” contest, complete entry forms at Ruffles N Rednecks or Temptations by Friday, Dec. 3.
Some residents got started on holiday decorations last week. To enter the “Light Up Lovelock” contest, complete entry forms at Ruffles N Rednecks or Temptations by Friday, Dec. 3.
Local residents and business owners are reminded that the entry deadline for the “Light Up Lovelock” holiday decorating contest is Dec. 3. 

Entry forms can be picked up at Ruffles N Rednecks or Temptations and should be returned to those shops by the deadline this Friday.

Decorations must be ready for judging by December 4 and winners will be announced on Dec. 11 according to the “Twilight Twinkles” Facebook page. Gift cards could be awarded to first, second and third place winners in the residential category and business owners will receive framed certificates for the first, second and third place business decoration entries.

“I believe we have three or four random judges that will go around independently and rate their first, second and third place entries,” event organizer Cindy Plummer said last week. There’s no specific criteria or theme for decorations this year, “just that good old holiday spirit,” she said.

Other new events include the “Snow Ball” dance sponsored by the 4-H Club on Friday, Dec. 10, 5 p.m. at the community center. Tickets are $5 and all ages are welcome.

On Dec. 11, there will be “Breakfast with Santa” for $5 at the Lovelock Volunteer Fire Department. Also that day, there will be a Gingerbread House Contest at Wizards starting at 11 a.m. Entries must be made of consumables (food) and will be judged by the public.

Also on Dec. 11, there could be ten to twelve local and out-of-town vendors from Fallon, Elko and Reno along Main Street in the afternoon, depending on the weather, Plummer said.

At 5:30 p.m. on Dec. 11, luminaries will be placed on the county courthouse steps to honor local heroes including law enforcement personnel, volunteer firefighters and ambulance personnel. The event is being sponsored by the Pershing County High School senior class.

Throughout December, there will be an “Ornament Hunt” at 14 participating businesses in Lovelock although the locations had not been finalized last week according to Plummer. There will also be the ugly holiday sweater “Wear It Wednesdays” for raffle tickets at local businesses.

Other events include “Car-O-Ling” on Dec. 17 and 18 at 6 p.m. sponsored by Temptations. The car processions will tour holiday decorations around town to the tune of holiday music and caroling. There may also be a trailer with hay bales for carolers to ride around town.

On Dec. 17, 18 and 19, the Kruze Road Winery will host “Winter Wine Fest” from noon to about 6 p.m. at 250 Kruze Road north of Lovelock.

There will also be the traditional events on Dec. 4 including the Friends of the Library Crafts Fair in the morning at the community center and the Parade of Lights that evening. The parade lineup will start at 5:30 p.m. at the community center with the parade to start at 6:15 p.m. The parade will stop at the courthouse so Santa can light up the courthouse Christmas tree. 

After the parade, there will be photos with Santa available in “Santa Alley” behind Temptations.

For months, the nonprofit “Twilight Twinkles” has been organizing the decoration contest and other events for “A December to Remember.” Plummer explained what motivated the group.

“2020 was a rough year across the country and we were hoping that everything would be back to normal but, of course, it’s not,” she said last week. “So, we’re trying to bring that Christmas spirit to everybody to know that there are reasons to believe in good things in life.”
