Skip to main content

Back to homepage
You have an ad blocker enabled
Please disable your ad blocker to continue reading.​
Enjoy these exclusive benefits:Unlimited access to our E-editionUnlimited articles on elkodaily.com with no surveysFREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)Games and puzzles online
$4.99 FOR 3 MONTHS
Unlimited digital, 50% OFF!
Winter Sale!

Elko Daily Free Press
TOP STORY
Spring Creek students decorate hospital for Christmas
SPRING CREEK HIGH SCHOOL 1 hr ago  0
Spring Creek High School HOSA and NNRH Auxiliary
Spring Creek High School HOSA members were joined by Northeastern Nevada Regional Hospital Auxiliary Volunteers and NNRH staff to pose in front of the Christmas tree  on Nov. 27 in the lobby. 

SUBMITTED
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
SPRING CREEK HIGH SCHOOL
ELKO – On Nov. 27, Spring Creek High School’s Health Occupations Students of America, Key Club, and National Honor Society programs met at the hospital to help the Ladies Auxiliary decorate the Northeastern Nevada Regional Hospital for Christmas.

These students took time out of their day during a holiday weekend to serve in their community. On top of that, the students ended up having a lot of fun decorating too!

Students helped set up and decorate Christmas trees all over the hospital. In addition to that they helped decorate the lobby and other locations in the hospital. The Ladies Auxiliary were very excited, because for the past two years they have not been able to decorate because of the Covid-19 pandemic. When the students started decorating, they turned on some Christmas music and the Christmas spirit was all around.

In the end this was a great opportunity to serve the community. The students hope this shows that Spring Creek High School is always available and willing to help our local community.

People are also reading…
Nevada woman transports minor to Montana for prostitution
Public school staff exempt from vaccine, test mandate, Sisolak's office responds
Former Elko County accountant charged with theft, misconduct
Elko District Court sentencings
Next time you visit the hospital during this holiday season make sure you stop and look at all of the hard work these students put into decorating. And if you see any ladies in pink lab coats, make sure to thank them for constantly donating their time around the hospital, it is greatly appreciated.

Students participating included Alyssa Openshaw, Holland Miller, Rachel Kalvelage, Alexa Johnson, Julianne Buttars, Elizabeth Bailie, Aubrey Dawson, Kathlyn Hedstrom, Jaycee Purper, Cidnee Borg, Shaylah Dawn Mangel, Robert McAnany, Rachel Phipps and Kaitlynn Horttor.

Tags
K-12-education Spring Creek High School Christmas Nnrh Northeastern Nevada Regional Hospital Nnrh Auxiliary Student Hospital Medicine Politics Education Auxiliary National Honor Society America
Get local news delivered to your inbox!
Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter.

Email Address
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
Related to this story
Elko's annual Christmas Bazaar returns
Elko's annual Christmas Bazaar returns
“The senior members donated items and the handcrafted ones are made by the seniors,” said board member Monica Coscarat.

Watch Now: Related Video
NYC to impose vaccine mandate on private employers
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Nobel medals distributed in Washington
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Biden decries high prescription costs: 'shame on us'
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Justice Dept. sues Texas over redistricting maps
Elko Daily Free Press
   
Sites & Partners
Print Edition Online
Mining the West
Email Alerts
Contact Us
Real Estate
Online Features
Amplified Digital Agency
Services
Customer Service
Become a Member
Activate
Advertise
Work here
Photo Submissions
© Copyright 2021 Elko Daily Free Press, 3720 Idaho St Elko,NV | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.

