The Ely Times
DEPUTIES RECEIVE REWARDS OF EXCELLENCE
Posted by The Ely Times | Nov 24, 2021 | News | 0 

White Pine County Sheriff’ Deputies Andy Overson and Deputy Lowell Sommervold were recently honored with awards of excellence by the Office of Traffic Safety for their outstanding performance serving the citizens of White Pine County.

Both deputies were recognized for their outstanding performance managing and participating in the Office of Traffic Safety events. The Office of Traffic Safety awarded the White Pine County Sheriff’s Office a grant totaling $28,000. which is used to pay deputies overtime so they can provide the citizens of the county with extra traffic enforcement. The events target speeding, pedestrian safety, distracted driving and seatbelt use. Deputy Overson serves as the Sheriff’s Office coordinator for the traffic safety events. He is responsible for assigning deputies overtime shifts to work the traffic safety events and he collects the data they report. The data is then provided to the Office of Traffic Safety.


Submitted photo – Deputy Andy Overson and Deputy Lowell Sommervold were honored with Rewards of Excellence.
Sommervold was recognized for his willingness to work the assignments and his determination in enforcing the Nevada traffic laws. Deputy Sommervold recently conducted a traffic stop on a vehicle in White Pine County and during his investigation made an arrest on an individual for trafficking a controlled substance. Sommervold and his K-9 partner located approximately 200 pounds of marijuana hidden inside the vehicle.

Sheriff Scott Henriod said, “The agency would like to congratulate both deputies and let them know how much we appreciate their dedication and determination in serving the citizens and making the county a safer place to live.”

SHARE: 
PREVIOUSVERNON LEE BRADLEYNEXTSurvey shows challenges in addressing management
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
The Ely Times
The Ely Times
RELATED POSTS
Recount for tied council seat to begin on Friday
June 12, 2015

White Pine County Sheriff’s Blotter Report
October 5, 2018

White Pine County Sheriff’s Blotter Report
August 21, 2015

Construction delays first day of school
August 24, 2018

LEAVE A REPLY
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

COMMENT

NAME *
EMAIL *
WEBSITE
EMAIL UPDATES
The latest news delivered to your inbox!

Email Address

SUBMIT
THE RURAL BUSINESS SHOW
 More Rural Business Content

Hometown Pizza

For more in-depth coverage of the Silver State, visit TheCompleteNevada.com
Mesquite Local News
Lincoln County Record
Mineral County Independent News
The Eureka Sentinel
Sparks Tribune

© 2021 Battle Born Media | Website by Nevada Central Media using the Extra Theme by Elegant ThemesContact   
