
Carson City FISH ‘riding the waves’ in transitional housing project
FISH is hoping to break ground in March 2023. The transitional housing project will take the place of the old Whistle Stop Inn on North Carson Street. (Photo: Faith Evans/Nevada Appeal)
FISH is hoping to break ground in March 2023. The transitional housing project will take the place of the old Whistle Stop Inn on North Carson Street. (Photo: Faith Evans/Nevada Appeal)
By Faith EvansMonday, December 6, 2021Discuss
Comment, Blog about
Share this
Email, Facebook, Twitter
Friends in Service Helping has a triple-threat development breaking ground next spring. Executive Director Jim Peckham says it’s going to enhance the local workforce, improve the look of downtown Carson City, and benefit participating families.
Two new apartment complexes and a commercial building will replace the Whistle Stop Inn on North Carson Street.
It’s not an affordable housing project, but a transitional housing project, Peckham told the Appeal.
FISH is planning for 36 apartment units, 24 two-bedroom and 12 one-bedroom, to support residents who want to return to school and enter the skilled labor market.
 

The residents filling the units will all be participants in FISH’s Fast Forward 4 Families program, designed to help adults leave their low-paying jobs and train to enter the skilled labor market.
“We call it our revitalization project,” Peckham said. “We’re revitalizing the look of downtown. We’re revitalizing the workforce.”
He said FISH has had three graduates from the program so far, but the apartments and commercial building could lead to many more. With housing, meals, and other resources covered by FISH, Peckham hopes the program eventually graduates up to 50 participants yearly.
“We’ll help at whatever level they need assistance,” he said, adding not everyone qualifies to enter the program.
He and his team fish for people who are currently employed with a good work history but are struggling to find a higher-paying position without access to education or training. They should have an interest in technology, health care, the trades, or a related field.
Western Nevada College and the Capital City C.I.R.C.L.E.S. Initiative connect FF4F participants with the education and skills training they need, while FISH supports them with housing and related resources. The end goal is to connect participants with a local employer who needs their skills.
“This project is really just trying to expand on what (FISH does) well,” said Megan McKeon, FISH’s marketing specialist. Per FISH’s slogan, it’s a hand up, not a handout.
The apartment project will hopefully enhance the success of FF4F. FISH is aiming to break ground in March, but it has a few hurdles to overcome first.
“The biggest challenge we have right now is getting all the resources we need,” Peckham said.
Demolishing the Whistle Stop Inn, dealing with inflated building costs, and navigating pandemic-related slowdowns have all added to the challenge. Not to mention funding – FISH has approximately half of the $14 million it needs to complete the development.
“Even as a nonprofit we don’t get to dodge those (issues). We get to ride those waves,” Peckham said, joking “no pun intended.”
Luckily, it’s not FISH’s first rodeo. It previously partnered with Nevada Rural Housing Authority to open Richards Crossing in 2017, an affordable housing project for homeless and low-income residents and veterans.
FF4F differs from Richards Crossing in its goals for its residents. Richards Crossing primarily connects its residents to support services and entry-level work, if appropriate. FF4F participants are often already housed and working.
“They need more than just the entry-level job. … Now we’re more focused on getting them moved from minimum wage to a meaningful career,” Peckham said.
With transitional housing replacing the Whistle Stop Inn, FISH will be poised to take on more FF4F participants and help them “ride those waves” to financial security.
To donate to FISH and support FF4F, drop off cash or checks at their office on 138 E. Long St., or visit www.nvfish.com/donate. Giving in-person rather than online ensures that FISH does not have to pay transaction fees on donations.
Residents who think they might qualify for the FF4F program can call FISH at 775-882-3474 or learn more through nvfish.com.
