Sigma Chi suspended at UNH. What we know as Vinny Lirosi's death is investigated
Ian Lenahan
Karen Dandurant
Portsmouth Herald








DURHAM — The University of New Hampshire has suspended the Sigma Chi fraternity indefinitely amid an investigation into whether a student found dead in a marshy area Sunday was "involved in an altercation" at an event fraternity members hosted the night he went missing.

The body of 22-year-old Vincenzo “Vinny” Lirosi was located by a search and rescue team off Coe Drive in Durham Sunday afternoon, about 36 hours after police say he was last seen alive. He was reported missing early Saturday.

UNH spokesperson Erika Mantz said Lirosi was a sophomore in the midst his second semester at the school since transferring. A history major, Mantz said Lirosi was a "valuable and engaged member of that department."

University of New Hampshire student Vincenzo "Vinny" Lirosi, 22, was found dead in this marshy area off Coe Drive in Durham Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021. He had been reported missing at 3 a.m. the previous day after a night out with friends.
Classes continued on a somber campus Monday, where UNH was set to offer a student grief processing event Monday night to help students cope with the tragedy. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of dollars are pouring in for Lirosi's family in an online fundraiser. 

The school advertise on social media a vigil in memory of Lirosi scheduled for 7 p.m. Monday on the Thompson Hall lawn.


What we know about investigation into death of Vincenzo 'Vinny' Lirosi
Michael Blackman, the university’s dean of students, sent a message to students Monday afternoon stating the Sigma Chi fraternity was suspended during the investigation.

"I also want to acknowledge reports that prior to going missing Vinny was involved in an altercation at a gathering hosted by the members of Sigma Chi Fraternity," Blackman wrote. "As is common practice when an investigation involves a fraternity, we were in touch with the organization's national headquarters and collectively agreed to interim suspend the organization effective immediately. This decision is not the result of an investigation or a formal finding of responsibility, but it is an important step while the Durham Police Department continues its investigation."

Durham Police Chief Rene Kelley said the party Lirosi attended Friday night was not at the fraternity house. "Some of the brothers of the fraternity rent apartments at a complex on Main Street. I don't know how many, but they rent plural apartments."

Regarding reports about an altercation, Kelley declined to comment on it. "We are investigating but there is no finality to our investigation at this time."

Vincenzo Lirosi, 22, of Durham, New Hampshire, a University of New Hampshire student from Whitman, Massachusetts, was reported missing Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021, and found dead Sunday.
Kelley said an autopsy for Lirosi was completed by the state medical examiner Monday, though the cause and manner of death won't be determined until toxicology test results are complete in six to eight weeks.

A university-affiliated webpage states Sigma Chi received official fraternal recognition from the university in April 2013. 

UNH student Vincenzo 'Vinny' Lirosi reported missing on Saturday
An out-of-state student hailing from Whitman, Massachusetts, police said Lirosi lived at 9 Woodman Road in an off-campus apartment. After drinking with friends Friday night, Lirosi was last seen around 1:30 a.m. Saturday. 

The student was reported missing at approximately 3 a.m., and police later stated Lirosi was not carrying his phone or any form of identification with him. At the time, the Durham Police Department publicized his disappearance and asked for the public’s help in trying to locate Lirosi, they added it was believed he had taken a path through a wooded area adjacent to Woodman Road as a shortcut to his residence. 

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
'Not the outcome we hoped for':Missing UNH student Vincenzo Lirosi found dead in Durham

State police began searching the town with canine units, and a helicopter was sent out to search for him. The search lasted through Saturday and into Sunday, with a town alert addressed by Town Administrator Todd Selig asking for public assistance in attempting to locate Lirosi.

“We have received several inquiries about putting together a volunteer citizen search party, but the State Police have asked that we not let anyone into the wooded areas because it could throw off the dogs,” Selig’s Sunday morning message stated. 

Lirosi's body was found in a wooded, marshy spot off of Coe Drive Sunday afternoon at approximately 1:20 p.m. by a New England Search and Rescue K-9 team.

UNH President James W. Dean Jr., along with school Police Chief Paul Dean and Kenneth Holmes, the senior vice provost for student life, acknowledged Lirosi’s death in a community-wide email hours after his body was found.

They wrote while state and local authorities are continuing to investigate, Lirosi’s death was “not believed to be suspicious.”

“Our thoughts and prayers are with Vincenzo’s family and friends. This is a very sad day for our community and right now we are focused on providing the support and resources needed for everyone who knew him or is impacted by his death,” message read. “We ask all faculty and staff to be considerate of students impacted by this tragedy and offer accommodations for assignments and attendance.”

They continued, “A sudden death brings a range of feelings, especially shock and disbelief. Please take care of yourself and seek help if you need it.”

How to support Vinny Lirosi's family
Created Sunday evening, a GoFundMe page has brought in tens of thousands of dollars for the Lirosi family to help pay for a funeral and other services.

A note on the fundraiser states it was formed by Lirosi’s brother, Giovanni Lirosi.

“He meant a lot to so many people and me and my mom really appreciate everything you guys are doing to help us out during this tough time,” Giovanni Lirosi wrote. 

Over 1,700 donations have been made, with some leaving messages of support and condolences for the Lirosi family’s loss. 

One person wrote: “Wildcats stick together. To those who loved Lirosi, I am sorry for your loss. I hope you are given the time and (the) space you (need) in order to grieve and process through this terrible accident. Stay safe out there wildcats.”

“Forever and always a Wildcat,” wrote another donor. “Fly high Vin!”

Donations are being accepted at gofundme.com/f/vincenzo-lirosis-funeral-fund.

UNH senior Logan French said while he didn’t personally know Lirosi, his “very scary” death has a big impact for many students.

“It hits close to home because most of my friends go to the bar every week and we all drink, sometimes to excess,” he said. “This could have happened to anyone and it is just a sobering reminder that you’ve got to look out for your friends.”

Police have said there is no danger to the public in connection with Lirosi's death. 

If you need help
UNH's Psychological and Counseling Services was set to hold a “processing space” Monday evening for students to honor the life of Vincenzo Lirosi. 

Face masks are mandatory for the university-advertised event, which was set to take place at 5 p.m. in the Strafford Room of the Memorial Union Building in Durham.

Psychological and Counseling Services can be reached at (603) 862-2090.

Blackman and his office can be reached at (603) 862-2053 or by email at dean.students@unh.edu.