This is Boston’s most popular dog name. It may sound familiar.
Did you give your dog or cat this particular moniker? We want to know if so, or if not, what name did you pick?
By Peter Chianca

December 6, 2021 | 3:55 PM
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Email
The people at Rover.com clearly spend an awful lot of time thinking about dogs. (Maybe too much?) You can tell from the sections on their website: “Dog Breeds,” “Dog Love,” “Dog Names,” “Dog Videos,” “Life With Dogs,” and “PuppyHQ.” Also, lest they be accused of playing favorites, there’s one called “Cats!” (Exclamation point theirs.)

The point being, Rover.com knows its dogs. And, at least somewhat, its “cats!” So we can probably trust them when they tell us that the most popular dog name in Boston is one we’re used to hearing a lot around these parts, especially if you’re the political sort. That’s right, there are an awful lot of Charlies running around out there — even if the state’s favorite Charlie, Baker, isn’t running for governor again.

GOOD DOG

Book Club’s next read is ‘Woodrow on the Bench’ by Jenna Blum
That’s not to say Charlie isn’t a popular dog name in general — it’s No. 2 among male dogs nationally, according to Rover. But its ascendance to first here is probably no coincidence; based on his popularity ratings, it seems most are very fond of our departing Charlie. (With the possible exception of his own party, but that’s another story.)

ADVERTISEMENT:
It will be interesting if the name “Charlie” follows Gov. Baker out the door when he leaves the Statehouse — or if “Michelle” (or “Wu”) will suddenly turn up on the list next year.

Here are top five dog names in Boston, according to Rover.com:
Male names

Charlie
Milo
Max
Teddy
Ollie
Female names

Luna
Bella
Daisy
Lucy
Lily

Lt. Governor Karyn Polito, left, and Gov. Charlie Baker visited with the Needham Police comfort dog, Officer Rocket, and Needham Police Officer R.J. Poirer outside of Michaelson’s Shoes while promoting local shopping last month. – Suzanne Kreiter/Globe staff
As for cats, while they may not be in the top 5, two of the hottest-trending names seem to indicate that football fans are seriously getting into kittens: “Brady” and “Mac” are in a dead heat, both names trending up 526% this year. Portending an eventual Super Bowl matchup between Tom the GOAT and rookie phenom Mac Jones? Stranger things have happened.

It’s worth mentioning, though, that nationally, neither of those were the top trending  football-inspired cat name of 2021. That would be another name that might ring a bell: “Gronk.” (The human version always seemed more like a Saint Bernard to us, but OK.)

Here are the top five cat names in Boston, according to Rover.com:
Male names

Leo
Oliver
Max
Milo
Jack
Female names

Luna
Bella
Lucy
Nala
Olive
Meanwhile, Rover.com says it dug into its “millions of user-submitted pet names” to determine which monikers were tops, but we prefer to put our trust in another source: Boston.com readers. What did you name your pet(s)? And why? Let us know in the survey below or e-mail community@boston.com, and we’ll include the results in a future article.