site-logo
Search...
Home
Covid-19
News
Sports
Tempo
Opinion
Shop Local
La Vida
Vecinos
Obits
Photos
Events
Classifieds
Jobs
Magazines
Maps
Archives
     
Toggle navigation
site-logo
Next Up
NEXT UP
Taos Police investigating fatal shooting of 25-year-old man on Dea Lane	
Taos Police investigating fatal shooting of 25-year-old man …
Taos Police Chief John Wentz said investigators are looking …

Statement of probable cause sheds light on Dea Lane homicide
Will Hooper Dec 6, 2021 Updated 1 hr ago  0
1 of 3



Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
A 38-year-old man who allegedly shot and killed a 25-year-old on Dea Lane in Taos last Thursday (Dec. 2) turned himself in to authorities shortly after the incident, a statement of probable cause filed in Taos Magistrate Court reveals.

Ray Rivera, who has been charged with first-degree murder, allegedly shot and killed Antonio Martinez after a night of drinking and doing cocaine with three other individuals at a warehouse on Dea Lane. Rivera said his intention was to pistol whip Martinez after the two got into a fight, according to the court filing. Instead, he said he shot Martinez in the head by accident, killing him.

According to the statement of probable cause, Rivera left the warehouse after an initial altercation with Martinez Thursday night, later returning with his brother and a Hi Point 380-caliber handgun. As he entered the warehouse, Martinez and others allegedly tried to stop him, but Rivera and his brother made their way inside.

One of the other men who was present during the fight, Bryan Sandoval, allegedly tried to hold Rivera back and take the gun from him, but Rivera got loose. Shortly after wrestling himself away from Sandoval, a shot rang out. Three of the four individuals, including Rivera, confirmed this account, though Rivera said he did not have the gun pointed at Martinez when the gun fired.

Two of the other witnesses told authorities they saw Rivera’s arm holding the gun and make a motion toward Martinez. Another individual said he didn’t see the actual incident and didn’t hear the gunshot due to loud music that was playing during the fight.

Rivera is currently being held at the Taos County Adult Detention Center. The state has filed a motion for pre-trial detention, claiming Rivera would be a danger to the community if released.

Rivera will appear before 8th Judicial District Judge Jeffrey Shannon on Dec. 10 for a preliminary hearing and a pre-trial detention hearing.

This is a developing story.

×
2 remaining of 3
Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.

Tags
Ray Rivera Antonio Martinez Law Criminal Law Statement Detention Gun Jeffrey Shannon Trial Individual Probable Cause
hooper
Will Hooper
Reporter

Author email
Recommended for you
 (0) comments
Welcome to the discussion.
Trending
Taos Police investigating fatal shooting of 25-year-old man on Dea Lane
Jury finds Rio Arriba County sheriff guilty of two felonies
Man charged in death of Taos Pueblo woman
Court roundup: November 24, 2021
Police Blotter: Nov. 24 - Nov. 29, 2021
 
 
Click below to support our sponsors
Sections
Home
News
Paseo Road Project
Abeyta Settlement
Sports
Announcements
Obituaries
Opinion
Tempo
Multimedia
Weekly E-Edition
Services
Advertise
Subscription Services
Submission Forms
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Local Business Directory
Free Newsletters
Search
Weather
site-logo
taosnews.com
226 Albright Street
Taos, NM 87571
Phone: 575-758-2241
Email: socialmedia@taosnews.com
     
Our sister publication:

Visitor's guide...

© Copyright 2021 The Taos News, 226 Albright Street Taos, NM | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
