
×

MY NEWS
HOME
LOCAL/STATE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
BUSINESS
CALENDAR
OPINION
OBITUARIES
CLASSIFIEDS
JOBS
Search
Albuquerque JournalAlbuquerque JournalNew Mexico and ABQ News, Sports, Business and more
 
Tuesday election to settle two City Council races
BY JESSICA DYER / JOURNAL STAFF WRITER
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6TH, 2021 AT 2:37PM

 
Voters will decide Tuesday what the Albuquerque City Council will look like come January as the campaign season comes to a close with a two-race runoff election.

At stake are the District 7 and District 9 seats and, with them, the political balance of the city’s nine-member legislative body.

Democrat Tammy Fiebelkorn, an environmental economist, and Republican Lori Robertson, a real estate agent, are squaring off to represent District 7. The district is centered around Uptown, encompassing the area west of Eubank between Lomas and Montgomery.

The district’s incumbent, Democrat Diane Gibson, decided not to seek reelection after serving two terms.

The runoff was required since no candidate earned at least 50% of the vote during the Nov. 2 regular election. By City Charter, the top two finishers must proceed to a head-to-head matchup.

In District 9, runoff voters are deciding whether to elect nonprofit board member Rob Grilley, a Democrat, or auto shop owner Renee Grout, a Republican.

The winner will replace Republican Don Harris, who opted to step aside with is fourth term coming to a close.

District 9 is the city’s Southeastern-most district, covering the area south of Menaul and east of Eubank.

While City Council races are officially nonpartisan, the runoff has attracted significant interest as it will determine which party holds the majority. Tuesday’s winners will join four Democrats and three Republicans on the council.

Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in both districts in the runoff, but the disparity is much more significant in District 7, where there are nearly twice as many Democrats as Republicans.

As of Monday, 5,803 people had voted early or absentee in the District 7 runoff, according to numbers the Bernalillo County Clerk’s office provided the Journal. That’s a turnout rate of 13.3% so far.

Democrats represent 3,569 of the votes cast compared to 1,521 Republicans.

In District 9, 5,589 people had voted by Monday — 13.6% of those registered. That includes 2,530 Democrats and 2,308 Republicans.

Q&As
District 7

Tammy Fiebelkorn vs. Lori Robertson

District 9:

Rob Grilley vs. Renee Grout
Election Day voting is available from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday at 16 sites. For more information, including a full list of sites, go to berncovotes.org.


Albuquerque Journal and its reporters are committed to telling the stories of our community.

• Do you have a question you want someone to try to answer for you? Do you have a bright spot you want to share?
   We want to hear from you. Please email yourstory@abqjournal.com
Prosecutor criticizes school over run-up to mass shooting
OXFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. -- The prosecutor overseeing the case against the student accused in last week's deadly Michigan school shooting and who took took the...
ABQ journal
MORE ARTICLES LIKE THIS
Tuesday election to settle two City Council races
Voters will decide Tuesday what the Albuquerque City Council will look like come January as…
City councilor-elect gets formal certification
District 1 winner is in dispute with city clerk over when term begins
Council race winner asks to be sworn in
Asserts he is eligible to take seat over rival's appointment
Campaign cash, real estate money fueling City Council runoffs
Nonpartisan races will determine political balance
MY NEWS
MOST READ
Subscribe now to access decluttered news, chosen by you. Manage the news you want to see, read exclusive content and explore other subscriber benefits.
SIGN UP FOR THE DAILY NEWSLETTER
Enter your email
Your email is safe with us, we don’t spam


AROUND ABQ
UPCOMING EVENTS
There are no upcoming events today
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7

Simple IT Solutions For Your Business
FatPipe ABQ
11:30 AM

Medicare Resource Center
Farmers Insurance Office
2:00 PM
MOST RECENT
Las Cruces film festival to honor William H. Macy
'Easy-Bake Battle' competition series filming in ABQ
Ex-Navajo Nation controller faces new criminal complaints

(505)823-4400
www.abqjournal.com
Copyright © 2021 Albuquerque Journal
Albuquerque, N. M.
notification icon
