
Ready for holiday lights? Check out this map of local light displays
Leah Romero
Las Cruces Sun-News









LAS CRUCES - The holiday season is well underway, and residents of Las Cruces and surrounding areas are setting up light displays. Check out these locations to help map out your drive around town.

And don't forget to stop by Downtown Las Cruces, the Mesquite Historic District and the historic Mesilla Plaza to take in the luminaria and other community displays. 

Calle De Las Margaritas
Drive south of Mesilla Park and visit Mama Jessie’s Toyland on Calle De Las Margaritas. Countless inflatable Santas, Charlie Brown characters and others cover the front yard. Visitors are welcome to walk among the decorations, take pictures and enjoy the Christmas music -- they are just asked to wear a facemask. 

Canterbury Arc
Take a drive in Mesilla Park and enjoy multiple streets with decorated houses. Lights outlining the edges of homes give the area a gingerbread-house feel. Take a turn down nearby Raleigh Road and Lucerne Way for more Nativity scenes, Santa Clauses and snowmen.

City View Drive
If you’re in the Foothills area, make a stop along City View Drive. The house at the corner is notorious for going all out with its light display each year. Lights cover the entire front of the property, illuminating the house for drivers along Lohman Avenue.

More: Guidance on Christmas tree permits for Gila, Cibola and Lincoln forests

Corona Del Campo Loop
This Sonoma Ranch street has multiple houses decked out with lights. One house in particular glows blue at night with decorations hanging in every tree and along the sidewalk path.

Del Monte Street
If you’re driving along Lohman Avenue, don’t miss taking a turn down Del Monte Street near the Arroyo Plaza. Multiple houses each way are lit up in this neighborhood. Don’t blink or you might miss it.

Doña Ana Road
This house is a bit more out of the way than the others on this list, but the drive is well worth it. Candy cane lights, reindeer and many more lights cover this home. Santa Claus sits atop this house with nutcrackers, penguins and other blowup decorations scattered throughout the yard.  

Egyptian Street
Near Tortugas Pueblo, two homes on Egyptian Street are decked out by serious Christmas decorators. Lights on the two properties are synced with music on 96.9 FM for a spectacular show. Cars line up in the cul-de-sac to see images of the Grinch, Santa, snowflakes and more. And a screen in the middle of the display may even show John Legend, Blake Shelton or Gwen Stefani if you catch their songs playing.

Happy holidays! Here's your guide to winter holiday events in southern New Mexico

South Espina Street
Several houses in the Espina area are decorated, but one house on the corner of Espina and Utah is lit completely. The house sits on a full corner and lights cover it from roof to gates. Strings of lights hang from the trees, and if you get closer, you’ll notice the gathering of Despicable Me Minions, reindeer, Batman and other inflatable characters.

Huntington Drive
Santa Claus scenes are aplenty at this home near Memorial Medical Center. Various decorations depicting the Big Man himself make this display special. Snowflakes adorn the roof and blowup decorations add a special pop.

Las Cruces City Hall
The City of Las Cruces joined in the holiday spirit with lights wrapped around the trees in front of City Hall. Continue down Main Street for more sights along the Plaza de Las Cruces.

Historic Mesilla Plaza
Known for its community luminaria display, Mesilla Plaza doesn’t disappoint. Walk along the rows of shops with luminarias lining the streets and the tops of buildings. Nativity scenes are tucked throughout the square. Don’t forget to stop in at the Basilica de San Albino to see the Catholic church’s decorations.

More: Dress the Child provides clothes for 100 Gadsden children, strives to serve more

South Mesquite Street
The community of businesses in the Mesquite Historic District are hosting a “Light Up Las Cruces” event Dec. 11 from 5:30-8:30 p.m. Luminarias and other decorations will adorn the community, welcoming visitors to walk along the path. Drop by the night of for holiday treats.

Plaza de Las Cruces
Strands of lights wrap around the streets lining Main Street in Downtown Las Cruces. A large Christmas Tree stands in the middle of the Plaza de Las Cruces, with decorative presents surrounding it. Festive figures of snowmen and penguins are placed throughout for people to take pictures with.

Royal Drive
Lights drape along this Las Cruces street. Figures of Peanuts’ Snoopy, Nutcrackers and candy canes are scattered around the property near Hillrise Elementary School.

Sierra De Oro Place
Near the Las Colinas and Metro Verde neighborhoods, this house is decorated with multiple Despicable Me Minions blowups, along with snowmen and other figures. There’s even a mailbox to send your letters directly to Santa Claus. The house is joined by other decorated homes along the street and in the nearby communities.

Shannon Road 
Drive east past Organ Mountain High School for this display on Shannon Road. People can drive by or walk through the decorations, which feature a "classic Christmas" side and colorful side. Take in the many inflatable decorations, including a kayaking penguin. 

University Church of Christ
This church near University Avenue and Jordan Road is planning a special light show during the month of December. The nightly synchronized light show, “Christmas on the Jordan,” will play nightly from 6-9 p.m. Dec.-16-26.

NMSU economics professor: Don’t wait to shop for the holidays

The show is about 30 minutes long and plays back to back for three hours per night. Lights will change along with music playing from an FM station. Over 10 Christmas Trees, arches and lights in the trees and bushes of the property will all be part of the show.  

More:

Happy holidays! Here's your guide to winter holiday events in southern New Mexico
Holiday BookNanza coming to the Mesilla Valley Mall Dec. 11
Leah Romero is the trending reporter at the Las Cruces Sun-News and can be reached at 575-418-3442, LRomero@lcsun-news.com or @rromero_leah on Twitter.



We Noticed You're Blocking Ads
We rely on advertisers to help support our journalism.
Please unblock ads or go AD FREE by subscribing.
Unblock Ads
Go Ad Free
Already a subscriber? Please sign in.