Skip to content

Menu
Search
Search...
Home / New scholarship to honor legacy of reporter Meg Jones

New scholarship to honor legacy of reporter Meg Jones
Julia Hunter
November 13, 2021
meg jones
Meg Jones
Current and former Milwaukee Journal Sentinel staffers have launched a scholarship fund in honor of longtime reporter Meg Jones, who died last year after a brief battle with pancreatic cancer.

The scholarship will be awarded to journalism students from Wisconsin attending the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Jones’ alma mater. Organizers hope to raise $50,000.

“As someone who got to work with Meg and as a UW-Madison alum, I am grateful that this fund offers financial assistance and also that it spotlights Meg as an example and inspiration for future journalists,” said Joel Dresang, president of the Milwaukee Press Club Endowment, which is administering the scholarship, in a news release.

As part of the effort, the Meg Jones Scholarship Fund will host an online auction fundraiser beginning Nov. 15 and running for several weeks.

“She was a caring friend and colleague, who looked after those who were ailing, took interns and young reporters under her wing, and conspired with experienced journalists as they assigned themselves to the best stories they could find,” Journal Sentinel editor George Stanley wrote in a column announcing the fund.

Jones is one of seven inductees who will be honored on Nov. 18, with induction into the Wisconsin Newspaper Hall of Fame.

» Read more

Briefing, News & Announcements, Top Stories

WNA Foundation announces 2022 Wisconsin Civics Games
Matthew DeFour
Your Right to Know: School investigation records should be public
polco, coronavirus, voter registration, presidential debates, covid-19
New poll gauges concern about omicron variant

Wisconsin Newspaper Association
34 Schroeder Ct.
Suite 220
Madison, WI 53711
(608) 283-7620

About Us
WNA Board of Directors
WNA Foundation Board
WNA Services Board
Our Members
Resources
Journalism
Advertising
Management
Students
Events
Civics Games
Convention
Hall of Fame
Trees Retreat
© Wisconsin Newspaper Association
