site-logo
  
Search...
Home
News
Sports
Obituaries
Opinion
Calendar
Media
E-Edition
Contests
Subscribe
Classifieds
Publications
Weekly Print Ads
Get and Submit
Advertise with Us
About APG Media of WI
Employment Opportunities
Toggle navigation
site-logo
Next Up
NEXT UP
Price County land transactions for Dec. 3, 2021
The Price County Register of Deeds office released its real property sales repor…

FEATURED
CSD survey seeks community input for superintendent search
Dec 4, 2021 Updated Dec 4, 2021  0
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
PARK FALLS — The Chequamegon School District Board of Education is inviting  community input through a survey that will help shape the criteria in the hiring process for a new superintendent.

School Administrator Ray Schulte is currently serving the school district on a one-year contract as the school district starts the process of hiring a full-time superintendent to start work on July 1, 2022. The school board enlisted the services of the Wisconsin Association of School Boards to assist in facilitating the search process, according to a Dec. 3 press release. 

The school board is interested in gathering input from staff and the community that is related to the hiring of the new superintendent. A community survey is one of the tools being used to help gather this information from the various stakeholders in the district.

The information from the survey will assist the board in creating an outline of skills and characteristics that would be sought in candidates for the position, according to the press release. The survey will also help in the development of questions to be used in the interviews.

The community survey can be accessed on the Chequamegon School District web site at csdk12.net starting Dec. 8. The link to the survey will be open through Dec. 15.

For a paper copy of the survey, contact the school district superintendent’s office at 715-762-2474 ext. 2229.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
×
Ads are being blocked by your browser.
Please disable your ad blocker, whitelist our site, or purchase a subscription

Tags
Chequamegon School District School Administrator Superintendent
(Copyright © 2021 APG Media)

College Football

Nonprofit to offer Texas offensive linemen $50,000 annually
2 minutes ago
Napier's Florida staff starts taking shape with Toney, Hocke
2 hrs ago

Colorado State brings in Nevada head coach Jay Norvell
48 minutes ago

Tumultuous season ends with Oregon seeking new head coach
20 minutes ago

Pickett, No. 13 Pitt headline AP All-ACC honors for 2021
5 hrs ago

Recommended for you
Nomination papers are circulating for aspiring school, community representatives in spring electin
Nomination papers are circulating for aspiring school, community representatives in spring electin
Throwback Tuesday
 Throwback Tuesday
Public support sought for Eagle Flight Enclosure
Public support sought for Eagle Flight Enclosure
Wisconsin's fall wolf hunt is on hold. Several lawsuits could affect whether it moves forward.
 Wisconsin's fall wolf hunt is on hold. Several lawsuits could affect whether it moves forward.
 (0) comments
Welcome to the discussion.
Trending Now
Philip Leon Hakala
Janice Marjorie Hakala
Betty Jean Leverence
Karen S. Meyer
June Elizabeth (Martin) Jensen

College Basketball

Boiler up! Purdue is No. 1 in AP Top 25 for the first time
an hour ago
Charleston Southern beats Tarleton 59-57
18 hrs ago
Horne, Heath's 3 help Arizona State beat Oregon 69-67 in OT
18 hrs ago

Ohio State opens Big Ten play with 76-64 win over Penn State
18 hrs ago
Nowell leads K-State past Wichita St in rivalry renewal
19 hrs ago

Latest E-Edition
Price County Review
Price County Review
Click here for the latest e-edition. Subscribers only.
site-logo
Follow Price County Review
  
Sections
Home
News
Sports
Obituaries
Opinion
Local Events
Multimedia
E-Editions
Services
About APG Media of Wisconsin
Employment Opportunities
Subscribe
Classifieds
Advertise with Us
Promote Your Event
Place an Ad
Contact Us
Advertiser Billing Inquiries
Search
Online Features
Weather
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
© Copyright 2021 APG Media of Wisconsin, 122 W. Third St. Ashland, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.
