
KANSASVILLE — The major crash reported Friday by the Racine County Sheriff's Office was a fatal one.

A woman died as a result of the collision at the intersection of Highway 20 (Washington Avenue) and North Britton Road. 

According to a news release from the Racine County Sheriff's Office, at about 11:30 a.m. Friday the Racine County Communications Center received calls reporting a two-vehicle accident at that intersection.

Upon deputies' arrival, the two vehicles involved were in ditches along Highway 20, on opposite sides of the roadway.

A red Toyota was reportedly southbound on North Britton; when it reached Highway 20, the operator allegedly failed to yield the right of way to a Ford truck that was eastbound on 20, resulting in the accident.

People are also reading…
Racine woman allegedly stole more than $1,000 in merchandise from Festival Foods
Teen faces possibility of life in shooting death of Racine man
Two Racine elementary schools to close at end of school year
Racine man allegedly connected to August killing gets $100,000 cash bond
Even though people didn't drive a lot last year, traffic deaths actually increased by the largest margin in the last 13 years. 36,680 people died in crashes last year, an increase of 7% from 2019. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration says it's because fewer people were on the roads. So, more people started speeding, not wearing seat belts or driving under the influence. Miles traveled by vehicle fell 13% in 2020 from 2019.

The operator of the Toyota, a 69-year-old female from the Town of Norway, sustained life-threatening injuries in the crash and died after being transported to the hospital.

The operator of the Ford truck was a 35-year-old man from Silver Lake. He had non-life threatening injuries.

Release of further information on the identity of those involved in this crash was pending notification of loved ones, the release said.
 
The investigation is ongoing. No further information from the Racine County Sheriff's Office is available.
