PCSD RE-2 School Board swears in new members
Dec 2, 2021 Updated Dec 2, 2021  0
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Park County RE-2 School Board
Pictured above (from left to right) Cindy Bear, Superintendent, Sheila Waite, President, Shana Bundy, Secretary, Graham Fowler, Director, Larry Foster, Vice President, and James Dean, Director. (Photo courtesy of the Park County RE-2 School Board)

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
By Kelly R. Kirkpatrick

Editor

 

The Park County RE-2 School Board swore in new board members and also officially approved recent election results pertaining specifically to Ballot Issue 4B at its Nov. 22 meeting, 


The election results being finalizied allowed for the board to  move forward with swearing in the new board members and revising its  budget to include 4B funds. 

The revised budget will be approved at the January meeting, and once that budget is approved, the district will be free to spend 4B funds. 

“We hope the community stays tuned so they can see how we are dispersing the funds from 4B,” said board President Sheila Waite. “There will be a link on the district’s website specifically to show the community where these funds are being spent, and the Facebook page strongshcoolsre2 will stay active with updates as well.”  

Another noteworthy development discussed at the meeting included an opportunity that Superintendent Cindy Bear and Business Manager Lisa Langlois were given to apply to reduce the interest rate on the BEST bond that the district has that was used to build the new school. 

The two ladies diligently completed the application process, and the district was granted an interest rate reduction said to save taxpayers $91,418.65 this year and $731,349.22 over the course of the life of the original loan. 

The board also voted for the board’s employee of the quarter, and that went to Lori Slifka. 

The board recently created “employee of the quarter” whereby employees can be nominated by anyone: a fellow staff member, a student, a board member or a parent or a community member.  Nominations are emailed to Cindy Bear throughout the quarter, and then at the end of every quarter the board reads all the nominations and votes on who they believe should be awarded a gift card that the board purchases from a local business. 

The first employee of the quarter was a tie awarded to Stephaine Hatch and Ron Reyes, and Slifka was the most recent recipient of the award.

The final item discussed Nov. 22 was board scholarship funds. The board opted to use some of the district’s money to create scholarship funds for three students; two will be in the amount of $2000.00, and one scholarship in the amount of $1000.00. The scholarships will be awarded to three graduating seniors each year. 

Board Director Graham Fowler met with school counselor Stephaine Hatch and principal Kevin Sellers to develop criteria for these scholarships, and those criteria were presented to the board Nov. 22. The Board agreed to the criteria, and students can begin applying for those scholarships this academic year.

Material for this story was compiled exclusively from board member reports communicated electronically to The Flume.