Family identifies toddler killed in crash
Nicholas Skaggs, 3, was from Mecosta County
Family identifies toddler killed in crash
Family identifies toddler killed in crash
By RICK MILLS | rimills@medianewsgroup.com | The Morning Sun
PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 5:11 p.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 5:20 p.m.
Nicholas Michael Caryl Skaggs had just began attending the Eastwood Childhood Special Education Program in Big Rapids and loved to ride the bus.

That’s among the memories his family shared in an obituary after a car crash in Mt. Pleasant that killed Nicholas and left another boy seriously injured.

Nicholas, of Grant Center, northeast of Big Rapids, was 3-years-old.

Nicholas was one of three children in a car involved in a two-vehicle crash Saturday afternoon.

RELATED ARTICLES
Montcalm boy, 11, killed on bicycle
Poison control center releases public health alert regarding fentanyl-laced marijuana
Michigan: 16,590 new COVID-19 cases, 127 more virus deaths over past three days
Carl Rummer set to retire after 48 years in the local car business
Mid Michigan College provides welding space for GI-TEC students to learn
The Isabella County Sheriff’s Office said that one of its deputies was approaching the intersection of Remus and Lincolns roads at 12:45 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 4, and witnessed two vehicles collide.

Inside a pickup truck was a 33-year-old Union Township man, who declined medical treatment.

Inside the other car were a 37-year-old woman along with three children, a 12-year-old girl and two boys, one of them 3-yea-old Nicholas.

They are all from Mecosta County.

The boys were in the back seat, the Isabella County Sheriff’s Office reported.

“The deputy observed that the two younger male victims in the rear of the car were in serious condition,” the Isabella County Sheriff’s Office reported. “The deputy assisted with medical treatment until first responders and EMS arrived.”

Nicholas died at the scene, and the older boy later was flown to Devos Children’s Hospital in critical condition, sheriff’s officials said.

The driver, a 37-year-old woman, and the 12-year-old were both taken for medical treatment for non-life threatening injuries, the sheriff’s office reported.

“Currently the accident is under investigation,” the sheriff’s office reported. “Preliminary findings point towards an improper turn at the intersection.”

NICHOLAS SKAGGS obit

Nicholas is survived by his parents, Ashley R. (Curtice) and Nicholas L. Skaggs; his sister Savanna; his brother Eugene; and his grandparents Michelle Bates, William Curtice, Sr., Michael Squires, Sharla Onstott, and Papa Bill and G-Ma Loni, among others.

A funeral service will be announced for a later date.

Memorial contributions in his name may be made to a trust fund being established for his siblings.

Arrangements are being handled by the Mohnke Funeral Home in Big Rapids.