Anti-vaping disposal boxes, kits distributed at 17 area schools
Steve Foley
The Petoskey News-Review








Health Department of Northwest Michigan staff members (from left) Ellen Templeton, community health coordinator, and Susan Pulaski, community health supervisor and SAFE in Northern Michigan project coordinator, show one of the vape/electronic nicotine device disposal boxes being installed at 17 school-based health programs to encourage youth to stop vaping. Funding for this project was provided through Northern Michigan Regional Entity.
Kits to help students quit vaping or properly dispose of vaping materials are being placed in 17 school-based health programs throughout the Health Department of Northwest Michigan's four-county jurisdiction of Antrim, Charlevoix, Emmet and Otsego counties.   

The health department purchased and is providing each location with the following: 

Vape/Electronic Nicotine Device (ENDs) Disposal Boxes

The boxes are locked secure mailboxes. Youth who would like to quit can dispose of vapes in the box. Additionally, school staff who confiscate vapes can properly dispose of them in the box. As needed, a health department Substance Use Prevention (SUP) team member will collect and properly dispose of the vapes from the disposal box at each clinic.  

Vape Quit Kits

Youth who visit a school Child Adolescent Health Center and share with health department staff they would like to quit vaping will receive a kit containing various tools to assist them with the quitting process, such as chewing gum, a sensory fidget toy, and most importantly the "My Life, My Quit" business card. 

"My Life, My Quit" is the free and confidential way to quit smoking or vaping designed for teens. 

Substance Use Prevention team members from the Health Department of Northwest Michigan have been distributing vape disposal units and vape quit kits to the following schools or school-based health programs: Vanderbilt Area Schools, Johannesburg-Lewiston High School, St. Mary’s Gaylord High School, Petoskey High School, Pellston Hornet Health Center, Gaylord Blue Devil Wellness Center, Alanson Wellness Program, Harbor Springs Ram Wellness Program, Mancelona Ironmen Health Center, Crooked Tree High School, Ellsworth Middle-High School, Boyne City Rambler Wellness Program, Central Lake Trojans Wellness Program, Charlevoix Rayder Wellness Program, East Jordan Wellness Center, The Falls Care Center - Boyne Falls and Concord Academy Petoskey. 

"The purpose of this initiative is to help students quit vaping and maintain a healthy lifestyle,” said Nichole Flickema, project coordinator of SAFE in Northern Michigan with the Health Department of Northwest Michigan.

"E-cigarettes and vapes, including rechargeable batteries and the cartridges and bottles that contain e-liquids (liquid nicotine mixtures), can pose a threat to human health and to the environment if they are not disposed of properly. In cooperation with schools, our health department team will properly dispose of the vapes through hazardous waste collections once they are collected from the schools,” Flickema added.  

Your stories live here.
Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it.
Create Account
Officials said vaping among the youth population has been an ongoing issue over the past several years. 

In a National Youth Tobacco Survey completed this fall, it was reported since 2014, e-cigarettes have been the most commonly used tobacco product among U.S. youths.

In 2020, an estimated 3.6 million, or 13.1%, of U.S. middle and high school students, reported using e-cigarettes within the past 30 days.

Additionally, more than 80% of current users reported flavored e-cigarette use.

While the most commonly used device type in 2019 and 2020 was a pre-filled pod or cartridge, disposable e-cigarette use increased significantly during this time among youths who currently used e-cigarettes in middle school (from 3% to 15.2%) and high school (from 2.4% to 26.5%), the survey stated.

Dr. Joshua Meyerson, medical director for the Health Department of Northwest Michigan, said similar with traditional cigarette manufacturers, many users of e-cigarettes start using the product before the age of 18, and certainly before the age of 21.

"Very few people who have not used these products by that age end up becoming regular users," Meyerson said. "They know if you're trying to get regular users of your product you need to appeal to that market.

"The goal is to try to reduce initiation and regular use by adolescents, because that will help reduce this epidemic of people facing a lifetime of nicotine addiction and the health harms that come with it."

According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), scientists are still learning about the long-term effects of e-cigarettes. Some of the ingredients in e-cigarette aerosol could also be harmful to the lungs in the long-term, the CDC said.

The e-cigarette aerosol that users breath from the device and exhale can contain harmful and potentially harmful substances, including nicotine, ultra-fine particles that can be inhaled deep into the lungs, flavorings such as diacetyl (a chemical linked to a serious lung disease), volatile organic compounds, cancer-causing chemicals and heavy metals such as nickel, tin and lead.