Comic book artist set to release ‘Made in Lincoln Park’ original artwork
Bill Morrison (right) is presented with the key to the city of Lincoln Park from Mayor Tom Karnes during a 2016 ceremony. (Dave Herndon — MediaNews Group)
Bill Morrison (right) is presented with the key to the city of Lincoln Park from Mayor Tom Karnes during a 2016 ceremony. (Dave Herndon — MediaNews Group)
By JIM KASUBA | jkasuba@medianewsgroup.com | News-Herald
PUBLISHED: December 6, 2021 at 12:18 p.m. | UPDATED: December 6, 2021 at 12:19 p.m.
HIGHLIGHTS
On Saturday, Bill Morrison will attend the museum’s sale and signing event where prints of his “Made in Lincoln Park” artwork will be available for the first time

One of Lincoln Park’s native sons is giving back to his community through the release of original artwork paying tribute to some of the city’s greatest success stories.

Illustrator and comic book artist Bill Morrison has created a visual tribute to his hometown, an original artwork titled “Made in Lincoln Park.” The piece will make its debut at 1 p.m. Dec. 11 at the Lincoln Park Historical Museum, when prints of the work will go on sale to the public.

“We owe a debt of gratitude to Bill for offering his art as a generous gift to the community,” said Museum Curator Jeff Day. “The funds raised will benefit the historical museum during this centennial year of Lincoln Park.”

RELATED ARTICLES
Center for Oral Surgery in Southgate to give $5,000 each to 6 needy Downriver families
Allen Park resident seeking stem cell transplant to cure multiple sclerosis
Man harasses Southgate McDonald’s restaurant by calling 50 times a day
Real estate in one Downriver city stands out for netting top dollar, selling the fastest
Michigan: 18,443 new COVID-19 cases, 277 more virus deaths over past two days
The subjects of “Made in Lincoln Park” are individuals from the city’s history who have made significant contributions to the American cultural landscape.

At the top of that list is Lincoln Park legend Preston Tucker, inventor and automotive pioneer who worked as a motorcycle patrolman in his early 20s, while also living and raising a family in the new city.

Tucker later became an inventor and auto manufacturer with his revolutionary Tucker ‘48 Sedan. Tucker’s story was given the big screen treatment in Francis Ford Coppola’s film “Tucker, The Man and His Dream” starring Jeff Bridges in the title role.

Actor Lyn Osborn may not be as well known as some of the others, in part because his career spanned a relatively short period of time because he died at a young age.

Osborn graduated from Lincoln Park High School in 1943 and served in the Navy during World War II. He played the role of Happy Cadet on the early sci-fi TV series “Space Patrol” from 1950 to 1955. Osborn died of a brain tumor at the age of 32.

Women’s ball player Mary Moore, a 1950 Lincoln Park High School graduate, showed exceptional skills as an athlete in school and in the early 1950s played with the Springfield Sallies and the Battle Creek Belles in the All American Girls Professional Baseball League.

Their story was later depicted in the successful 1992 film, “A League of Their Own.” Moore continues to be active at age 89.

Chuck Miller, the custom auto designer-builder, created his full-scale award-winners The Fire Truck and The Red Baron Roadster, along with his series of half-scale monster engine Zingers!, bringing him national acclaim.

The 79-year-old 1961 graduate of Lincoln Park High School was in town this past August, where he received a ceremonial key to the city from Mayor Tom Karnes at the opening of the historical museum’s exhibition celebrating his over six-decade career.

In the mid-1960s, one of the seminal alt-rock bands of the era emerged from Lincoln Park — The MC5. The band produced three ground-breaking albums of their own music and numerous 45 rpm’s. Today, the MC5 are credited as being progenitors of the punk rock genre along with The Stooges, whom they heavily influenced.

Illustrator Gary Grimshaw, a 1963 graduate of Lincoln Park High School and high school friend of MC5 vocalist RobTyner, began his career as poster artist for the Grande Ballroom concert venue. The MC5 served as a house band there from 1966 to 1971.

His career as illustrator and artist continued until his death in 2014. Grimshaw and the MC5 were synonymous with the Detroit counterculture era and left lasting legacies.

Morrison is a well-known artist among Simpsons fans through his decades-long stint as creative director at The Simpsons creator Matt Groening’s publishing company, Bongo Entertainment. He has also drawn thousands of Simpsons images for advertising, promotion and limited edition fine art. He has produced designs for episodes of the TV series as well as The Simpsons Movie.

Morrison began his career in Hollywood as an illustrator, painting dozens of movie posters including several for Walt Disney Pictures. The list of his classic film posters includes The Little Mermaid, Bambi, Peter Pan, The Jungle Book, The Land Before Time, The Jetsons Movie and many more.


Artist Bill Morrison is well known among Simpsons fans through his decades-long stint as creative director at The Simpsons creator Matt Groening’s publishing company, Bongo Entertainment. (Self-portrait drawing courtesy of Lincoln Park Historical Museum)
When Groening founded Bongo Entertainment, Morrison was on board as art director and drew the very first Simpsons comic. He served as creative director, editing Bongo’s entire book and comic output, and writing and drawing stories and covers.

He also worked with Groening on the Futurama TV series, serving as series art director, and most recently with Groening on his Netflix series, Disenchantment.

Morrison wrote and drew the graphic novel adaptation of The Beatles Yellow Submarine for Titan Comics in 2020, and was the Executive Editor of MAD Magazine.

In 2016, Lincoln Park honored Morrison by presenting him with a key to the city during a presentation at the Historical Museum’s career retrospective.

“Bill’s talents were renowned in Mixter Elementary and Huff Junior High School before they were shared with the world,” said Mayor Tom Karnes. “He left his mark as a great artist while retaining hometown values. He is a true Lincoln Parker. “Since that time, Bill has donated his artwork and talents to help the museum.  Now he has created a piece of art to celebrate Lincoln Park and support the Lincoln Park Historical Museum. ‘Made in Lincoln Park’ is a wonderful tribute to the city from someone who was just that.”

On Saturday, Morrison will attend the museum’s sale and signing event where prints of his “Made in Lincoln Park” artwork will be available for the first time. Signed prints will be available for purchase for $50 apiece, with a limit of two prints per person.

The art print is 11 inches by 14 inches and is suitable for framing. Prints will remain on sale during regular museum hours or via phone, mail or online orders.

Regular museum hours are from 1 to 6 p.m. through Dec. 29. The museum is closed for the month of January, reopening on Feb. 2. The museum is located at 1335 Southfield Road. 

For more information call 313-386-3137, email lpmuseum@gmail.com;  check them out on Facebook or visit the Lincoln Park Historical Museum website at lphistorical.org.