
Welcome Christmas Dec. 3 in Floresville
 Open Audio Article Player
November 30, 2021

Audio articles on Wilson County News made possible by Richardson Bros Chevrolet in Floresville.
FacebookTwitterMeWeCopy LinkShare
Floresville city employee Keith Mayberry and Floresville Economic Development Corp. Executive Assistant Charlotte Ximenez-Nelson secure lighting on an addition to the Christmas display Nov. 23 on the Wilson County Courthouse square in Floresville. Plan to attend the city’s tree lighting this Friday, Dec. 3, and enjoy Olde Time Christmas Night in Floresville! GREGORY RIPPS/Wilson County News
Floresville city employee Keith Mayberry and Floresville Economic Development Corp. Executive Assistant Charlotte Ximenez-Nelson secure lighting on an addition to the Christmas display Nov. 23 on the Wilson County Courthouse square in Floresville. Plan to attend the city’s tree lighting this Friday, Dec. 3, and enjoy Olde Time Christmas Night in Floresville! GREGORY RIPPS/Wilson County News

Join the Floresville community Friday, Dec. 3, as the city ushers in the holidays!

The Floresville Economic Development Corp., city of Floresville and City Manager Andy Joslin, the Wilson County News, and the Floresville Chamber of Commerce are sponsoring the annual Christmas tree lighting and latenight shopping in downtown Floresville.

Events kick off at 5:30 p.m., as Santa Claus arrives on the Wilson County Courthouse Square, escorted by the Floresville Police Department.

Enjoy photos with St. Nick, music by D.J. Dusty Honesto, and performances by The Wilson Ballet and Studio C, followed by the Christmas tree lighting at 7 p.m., with a Drama Kids International performance afterward. See ad, page 5A, for full schedule.

After the tree lighting, stay in Floresville for Olde Time Christmas Night — late-night shopping (see page 3A) with city businesses, including C Street Gift Shop and Home Marketplace on Third, as well as vendors on the courthouse square.

Also, enjoy Coffee, Cocoa and Popcorn with a Cop at C Street Gift Shop, and meet members of area law-enforcement agencies while enjoying snacks and browsing the array of gifts and products. See more on page 2A.
