Welcome, Guest
Sign UpLog In
Home
News
Counties
Sports
Projects
Entertainment
Events
Opinion
Obituaries
Celebrations
Classifieds
e-Edition
Business Directory
2022 BOTB
Search...

Toggle navigation

Next Up
NEXT UP
Volunteers open Victoria campaign office for gubernatorial candidate Allen West	
Volunteers open Victoria campaign office for gubernatorial c…
Two volunteers with hopes to elect Allen West, a former Texa…

ALERT CENTERPIECE TOP STORY
COVID-19
Dozens rally outside Victoria hospital against paused COVID-19 vaccination mandates
Citizens, DeTar hospitals did not require staff get vaccinated prior to federal mandate; report a majority of staff already took vaccine
By Chase Rogers | crogers@vicad.com Dec 5, 2021 Updated 6 hrs ago  4
1 of 3



Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
More than 50 people, including some former and current health care workers, gathered outside Citizens Medical Center Sunday afternoon to protest a now-halted federal mandate that required hospital system employees to get COVID-19 vaccination shots.

Many of the demonstrators held signs voicing their opposition to the requirements.

“Stop medical tyranny,” “my body, my choice,” “love thy neighbor, respect their choice,” and “vaccine mandates go far beyond health,” said some of the signs carried by those protestors. Others carried U.S. flags and patriotic signs thanking veterans and health care workers.

Dozens of motorists honked in support and waved as they drove by on Sam Houston Drive, including two Victoria police vehicles and a Victoria County sheriff’s office cruiser, drawing cheers from the crowd.

Some demonstrators held signs signaling their opposition to President Joe Biden, who has been a strong proponent of vaccines and whose administration issued the mandates. Many of their signs and shirts read ”Let’s go, Brandon,” a line that’s become popular in right-wing circles as a stand-in for “F—- Joe Biden.” Others held “Trump 2024” signs.

Gallery: Freedom Over Fear rally against COVID-19 vaccine mandates
More than 50 people gathered outside Citizens Medical Center Sunday afternoon to protest a now-halted federal mandate that required hospital system employees to get COVID-19 vaccination shots.

1 of 10










The demonstration was organized by Freedom Over Fear, an Victoria advocacy group formed in September to oppose mask mandates in schools. However, the group has expanded its focus to COVID-19-related mandates since, said Tracy Hanes, a founding member.

“We should all have the choice to do whatever we feel is best for us and our bodies … the latest mandates that have come through are targeting our nurses and our medical staff,” Hanes, 49, of Victoria, said during the roadside rally. “We’re standing up for that.”

The demonstration comes as Citizens Medical Center and DeTar Healthcare System — as well as other hospitals in the region — have voluntarily paused their vaccine regimen for staff after a nationwide injunction ordered Tuesday by a U.S. district judge, who blocked the Biden administration’s COVID-19 vaccination mandate for health care workers from going into effect.

That mandate would’ve gone into effect on Sunday, and both Victoria hospitals were planning to comply. Neither hospital had required staff to get vaccinated prior to the mandate, though it was strongly encouraged. As of last week, Citizens reported that 85% of their staff were fully vaccinated against COVID-19. A spokesman for DeTar Healthcare told the Victoria Advocate this week that most of their caregivers were already vaccinated, not providing an exact breakdown.

Dr. John McNeill, emergency department director at Citizens Medical Center and Victoria County’s public health authority, said the Medicare and Medicaid funding the hospitals could lose by not complying with the federal mandate would be a “significant financial burden to keeping the doors open.”

“It’d be like trying to run a car with no gasoline,” McNeill said. “Citizens could’ve required all staff get vaccinated, as some hospitals have done, but they chose not to for those that want a choice. But there is no wiggle room with this mandate.”

McNeill questioned why the rally was held outside of Citizens Medical Center even though the mandate affects all health care facilities receiving Medicare and Medicaid funds. The location of the rally is also strange, he said, because Citizens had not required staff to be vaccinated prior to the mandate.

“We’d given people that choice before the mandate,” he said.

Hanes is critical of the current administration’s decision to tie funding to the mandate. Should the mandate be reinstated, she said health care facilities should not comply because “protecting constitutional rights” is more important. “Money should never be part of that,” she said.

Motorists honk in support and wave while driving by a Freedom Over Fear rally outside of Citizens Medical Center on Sunday.

By Chase Rogers | crogers@vicad.com
Dottie Bitterly, 57, of Victoria, attended the rally and said she works at DeTar Healthcare as a certified diabetes educator and registered nurse, also working for a time at Citizens previously. She said she was granted a religious exemption, so she had not been vaccinated. However, she decried hospitals that have fired staff due to not getting vaccinated.

In the case of DeTar and Citizens, she said she would understand whether they comply with the mandate, should it be reinstated.

“We can’t lose the hospital, but people should still have a choice,” she said. “I am just praying the courts make the right decision and stop this. It is evil.”

Many of the attendees cast doubt on the effectiveness of the COVID-19 vaccines. However, a Texas Department of State Health Services report released in November found unvaccinated people were more than 40 times more likely to die of the coronavirus than those who got their shots.

Of the nearly 29,000 COVID-linked fatalities from Jan. 15 to Oct. 1, more than 85% were of unvaccinated people, according to the report’s findings. Nearly 7% and 8% of the deaths were among partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated people, respectively.

Still, Bitterly and Hanes said they would like to see more information on the side effects of the vaccines. They both told stories of people they know who died or still got ill despite getting a COVID-19 vaccine.

Although Hanes said she thinks the jury is still out on the vaccines, she said the issue is more about the “government stepping in and forcing people” to take the vaccine.

“I am not anti-vax. I am pro-freedom. That’s the message,” she said. “I’m standing up for anyone that decides to go get the vaccine as well. If you want to wear a mask, I’m standing up for your freedom to do that. But it shouldn’t be forced.”

Both DeTar and Citizens will continue to encourage staff — as well as the community at large — to get vaccinated against COVID-19, according to statements by the hospital systems this week.

McNeill said medical workers should liken the vaccine to another piece of personal protective equipment. He said he also strongly encourages medical workers to get vaccinated regardless of the mandate’s status because their profession can likely expose them to COVID-19.

“The vaccine and boosters should work in part with your (personal protective equipment). Few would keep working without those tools,” he said. “We will let this play out in the courts and see what happens.”

As of Sunday, the disease has caused the deaths of more than 350 residents in Victoria County, according to state data.

Freedom Over Fear rally
The demonstrators pose for a group photo outside of Citizens Medical Center on Sunday. 

Contributed photo
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
	
Victoria sip and shop market a hit

	
Victoria County Clerk's Office closed after employee catches COVID-19

	
Jury duty on Monday canceled due to rising COVID cases in Victoria County

	
2 hope to win VISD board trustee race

Chase covers breaking news, crime and courts for the Advocate. He can be reached at 361-574-1286, crogers@vicad.com or at @chasedrogers.

You must be logged in to react.
Click any reaction to login.
1
1
2
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
+
−
Leaflet | © HERE maps.
MORE INFORMATION
DeTar, Citizens pause vaccine mandates after federal vaccine mandate halted
DeTar, Citizens pause vaccine mandates after federal vaccine mandate halted
Local hospitals that participate in Medicare and Medicaid programs will no longer have to require staff be fully vaccinated for COVID-19, afte…

Tags
Vaccination Victoria Police Joe Biden Detar Healthcare System Tracy Hanes Citizens Medical Center John Mcneill Victoria County
Chase Rogers
Chase Rogers
Breaking News & Public Safety Reporter

Chase writes about crime and courts for the Victoria Advocate. He grew up in the Dallas–Fort Worth area before attending Texas State University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in mass communication and journalism.

Author linkedin Author twitter Author email
Thank you for reading!
Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to read or post comments.

To subscribe, click here. Already a subscriber? Click here.

LATEST E-EDITION
Victoria Advocate
 Victoria Advocate
Click to see video of How to Use the E-Edition

MOST POPULAR
 Articles
Dozens rally outside Victoria hospital against paused COVID-19 vaccination mandates
Christmas Parade of Lights draws hundreds to Victoria
Victoria native recognized as top of health care field
Ashley HomeStore gifts children a place to lay their heads down at night
Dave Sather: No free passes at church
Brooks brothers lead Shiner to rout of Refugio
Cuero heads to semifinals after win over Navarro
4 new COVID-19 cases reported in Crossroads
Lago Vista knocks out Industrial in regional final
Volunteers open Victoria campaign office for gubernatorial candidate Allen West
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
The Victoria Advocate
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER

ONLINE POLL
Do you support Allen West for governor?
Yes
No
 
FEATURED BUSINESSES
 
Find a local business
I'm looking for…
STOCKS

Market Data by TradingView
SECTIONS
e-Edition
News
Sports
Blogs
Celebrations
Obituaries
Opinion
Multimedia
About Us
Employee Directory
SERVICES
Local Events
Promote Your Event
Submission Forms
Readers Services
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Business Directory
Email Alerts
Search
Weather
Contact Us
Archives
CONTACT INFORMATION
Contact Information
101 W. Goodwin Ave., Suite 1200
Victoria, TX 77901
Phone: 361-575-1451
Email: feedback@vicad.com
   
© Copyright 2021 victoriaadvocate.com, 101 W. Goodwin Ave., Suite 1200 Victoria, TX | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com.