News
Your Town
Sports
Obituaries
Opinion
Brazos Living
Local Events
e-Edition
Special Sections
Classifieds
Shop Local - Shop Strong
Subscribe
Promote Your Event
Site Forms
Search...
Toggle navigation
site-logo
Shop Local - Shop Strong
BREAKING NEWS
Arrest confirmed in beating of B'wood student
Arrest confirmed in beating of B'wood student
Updated 5 hrs ago
 2
Next Up
NEXT UP
Brazoswood student left in ICU after attack	
Brazoswood student left in ICU after attack
Brazosport Independent school district Junior student in ICU…

BREAKING WEB ONLY
Arrest confirmed in beating of B'wood student
RAVEN WUEBKER raven.wuebker@thefacts.com Dec 6, 2021 Updated 5 hrs ago  2
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
LAKE JACKSON — A football teammate of a Brazoswood junior beaten outside a Lake Jackson home is charged in the attack, police confirmed Monday morning.

Reid Mitchell, 17, turned himself in Sunday morning at the Lake Jackson Police Department on a city warrant, online records show. He is charged with aggravated assault with a weapon, a felony, Lt. Roy Welch said, in connection with the beating of 16-year-old Cole Hagan.

The assault happened about 11:30 p.m. Friday at a home on Cherrywood Court. Welch said.

“An active investigation was initiated with sufficient evidence and statements for charges.” Welch said.

The Hagan family is offering an award of almost $20,000 for a video of the attack, which happened "because they got mad at my brother about this girl,” said Hagan's older brother, Cory.

Cole Hagan, 16, is hospitalized at Memorial Hermann in Houston with skull fractures and remains unconscious, his brother said. The assault involved a blunt object, he said.

“We’re focusing on keeping him alive while he’s fighting for his life," Cory Hagan said. "We’re going to make sure everyone involved is going to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”

From what he has been told by possible witnesses, Cory Hagan said, someone told Cole Hagan something had happened to his truck, and when he went to check on it, a group of teenagers was waiting for him.

“Allegedly there is a video where these kids film assaulting him and leaving him in the street and texting his friend saying, ‘Your friend is in the street,’” Cory Hagan said.

The amount of the award rose steadily throughout the day Sunday, and Cory Hagan hopes someone comes forward with the video, he said.

“What angers me the most is the parents don’t have the decency to instruct their children to do the right thing and come forward with the information,” Cory Hagan said.

The investigation into the assault continues, Welch said.

Brazosport ISD is aware of the incident, Superintendent Danny Massey said.

"We are aware that a Brazoswood High School student was the victim of an off-campus assault at a Lake Jackson residence by another Brazoswood student over the weekend," Massey said in a statement. "The victim is severely injured and remains in our thoughts and prayers. The incident is under investigation by the Lake Jackson Police Department. The student involved will not be on campus. If more information is discovered as a result of the investigation, we will take actions accordingly."

Massey also cautioned against students taking action against anyone rumored to be connected to the incident.

"We expect our students, staff and Brazoswood community to come together to help support the victim and family," Massey said. "Any retaliation or threats will not be tolerated and students will be charged to the fullest extent of the law. We will have additional police officers and counseling available at Brazoswood High School beginning Monday."

Brazoswood football coach and campus athletics director Danny Youngs did not wish to comment on the incident, but said, “We’re all praying for Cole to recover and to be healthy.”

Raven Wuebker is a reporter for The Facts. Contact her at 979-237-0152.

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Cole Hagan
Cole Hagan

ravenwuebker
Author email
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
 (2) ENTRIES
Greg Haston Dec 6, 2021 10:31am
If charged, try him as an adult.

rfsexton Dec 6, 2021 2:01pm
There is absolutely no excuse for this attack. It is sad that parents are not doing their part to make the filmer turn over the video. I think everyone who was there should face charges. Lock them up.

Sign the guestbook.
UPLOAD YOUR PHOTO HERE
 
TODAY'S E-EDITION
Dec 4-5 2021
Most Popular
 Articles
Brazoswood student left in ICU after attack
LJ man linked to burned corpse, police say
Arrest confirmed in beating of B'wood student
Man arrested at gunpoint on warrant
7th-grade student accused of threat
Manvel accident information updated
Another threat made against LJI
Lake Jackson native trapped in Haiti
Priscilla Marlen Alaniz “Prisci”
Sharon Denise McJohnston Bevers
BRAZOS MONTHLY
Brazos Monthly December 2021
GULF COAST GIANTS
Gulf Coast Giants Fall 2021
Online Poll
If the gubernatorial primaries happened today, who would have your vote?
Greg Abbott
Don Huffines
Allen West
A Democrat
 
Newsletters

Daily Obituaries
Get a list of the day’s obituaries, delivered to your inbox every day.


Daily Headlines
Would you like to receive our daily headlines? Signup today!

Enter email address
NEWSPAPER ADS
Marquis Industrial Now Hiring
Marquis Industrial Now Hiring
Region 7
Region 7
Request-Levee Walking Trail
Request-Levee Walking Trail
First State Bank Teller Position
First State Bank Teller Position
Public Sale - Allen Mini
Public Sale - Allen Mini
C:143.50, R:107.50, P:116.50
C:143.50, R:107.50, P:116.50
VME Hiring Dirt Equipment Operators
VME Hiring Dirt Equipment Operators
2202CCP (Contracted
2202CCP (Contracted
Sections
News
Sports
Obituaries
Opinion
Brazos Living
Local Events
Milestones
Columns
Police
Weather
Services
Personnel
Place an Ad
Promote Your Event
Home Delivery
Subscription Services
NIE
Rack Locations
Site Forms
Pay Advertising Invoice
Contact Information
thefacts.com
720 S. Main St.
Clute, TX 77531
Phone: 979-237-0100
Email: support@thefacts.com

Follow Us
 
© Copyright 2021 The Facts, 720 S. Main St. Clute, TX | Privacy Policy
VETERANS PHOTO GALLERY
Honoring Our Veterans - Gallery 2021
Honoring Our Veterans - Gallery 2021
